---
title: "Strategy Session"
date: 2026-02-23T22:34:11Z
duration: 71 min
participants: ["Jeff Whitlock", "Mike Adams", "Taylor Halversen-Bates", "Ben DeMordaunt", "Ryan Johnson", "Jake Bagley"]
attended: true
processed: false
source: grain
grain_id: f4bb4c36-716f-4dcb-ab65-84d5ad82b740
grain_url: https://grain.com/recordings/f4bb4c36-716f-4dcb-ab65-84d5ad82b740
---

**Jeff Whitlock:** Hello? Yeah. We took an out quarter. Yeah. These are just Costco chairs, So emotional then. Properly now with the deal. But you don't like the what do oh, do we put the rest of those down in the down the storage. Right? I I think we just threw them away. So they're down in storage. Oh, no. I but we put it out. Away? We're not open? Yeah. What do we do? What do we do? Remember seeing him downstairs. I don't know what we have done. I have no idea what we do. Got rid of them. Maybe they're downstairs. They're gonna fold it up downstairs. Have no idea. Storage sensors. There's a storage unit down to the side. That big, so the big spreads really, we can check. I have no idea. Alright. So I wanted to I wanted to, like, we'll see how this goes. This is more of an experiment, but I wanted to, like, create a create, like, a space for us to have kinda more unstructured open ended problem solving. Solutioning. There's very Mackenzie, we call that problem solving, but, basically, but solutioning also works. But so I'm putting it on the on the calendar. I'm just calling strategy sessions where we can talk about higher level questions about, like, where we're going, and and opportunities or challenges we see in the market with our direction. And so in the future, in some of these in some of these sessions, I might come I might have you guys all read, like, a, like, a doc beforehand and react to it. It might be more structured. This one gonna be a little bit less structured. I do have a doc I shared with Taylor, but I kinda wanted more just for this first one to be a bit more open ended and kind of just skip both stops on, like, what yeah. Just, like, what strategy level thoughts of, like, what you guys see as challenges, opportunities, Brett, stuff like that. So I'll just open up, like, with that question of, like, yeah. What what's top of mind for people when you think about, like, where we're headed as a company and and and opportunities are ahead of us and what challenges you see The challenges I see are light. Google Meet, Zoom, and, you know, just the the virtual meeting platforms. Adding enough capability to suffice user needs. Yeah. When I said, like, note taking capability. I don't think we'll really ever get into integration. And I don't sometimes it feels like it meets needs of, like, enterprise and not so much SMB, but then sometimes it feels like SMB just looking for the cheapest option. So they go with it too. Yeah. The reason I say, like, enterprise, like, know, we kinda had that note from oh, what was their name? Forsyth Bar or whatever, and they went with Zoom as their, like, Yep. And it was just really enterprise So but

**Jeff Whitlock:** that I guess that's the challenge. I think or the biggest concern I have But, like, on the potential ideas and past, like, I really and I said this to Jeff, like, the momentum I'm seeing is we are winning over fathom customers. Which, like, I feel like we haven't done. Why is that? Why do you see that happen? Do kinda like I said to you, just like the desktop capture capability is really appealing to users that want both. It's like the educated not always educated, but just someone I've had, I think, twice now it's come up in the last week where, like, someone I sent the the one I sent to you, I should've shared more broadly, but, like, was just someone who was like, yeah. I was pretty sold on Fathom until I found out that you did both. Desktop capture and and bot capture. They're like, we definitely want both. As an option. You know? They're like, and I feel like that's the pattern I'm taking over and over again. It's just we're just, like, that we are beating Fathom. Sometimes even just on note quality alone. But majority of the time, it's, like, the ability to do both desktop and bot capture is is appealing to users. So that's the opportunity, I guess, I see is just continuing down that path. Yeah. What's interesting is, like, I think we're all smart people. Smart people tend to think theoretically a lot. Yeah. Because you can imagine things and you can see connect dots and stuff. I think it's so we talk a lot about a lot of threats, but one that the only one that I, like, consistently see in our churn data is the the, Google thread. Yeah. It's like there's just every time I look at churn in-depth, you just don't see a lot of other things that are, like, the other losing to competitors. Losing to direct competitors, losing to AI more broadly, losing to Notion. Like, you just don't see it. Mean, it's possible that it's, like, report not reported or there's some gap in our reporting, but there's just not a lot of direct evidence to suggest that except for, to your point, the the Google threads. Like, last time I did the analysis two weeks ago, that's one that consistently see and it seems to be increasing. Not like a like a five alarm fire level, but you do see it. That also is that just because also the customer like, loyalty with meeting platform? Yeah. I think it's just easy because it's part of already where they're having their meetings, and it's of they're already paying for Google Workbase usually. So it's, like, not another tool, and it's cheaper. Consolidation. You hear a lot of people talking about tools right now. Like, I've seen a lot of mentions of that. Sarvage against that, though, is that we work across platforms. It's cross platform. It's more team organization.

**Jeff Whitlock:** It's auto record. Is I'd be surprised cross platform is that big of a I don't I don't I think that's always been more of a theoretical selling point than a actual one. Maybe we like it, but I don't know if that'd be all that much in theory. We can look at the stats You do see it with s SMB app, like, executives and consultants. Consult I'm sorry. Agency and consultants, I think it is a it is more of a real thing. But I think the sales I think AE is just their platform. Yeah. Yeah. And then yeah, 95%. And they're like, oh, man. I had to attend a Zoom call? Like, bummer. I couldn't record. You know? So still on the what are the the biggest Yeah. What not just let's just concerns. Concerns are one way to but, like, what are you seeing in the market? What and and what do you think then? Like, what are your thoughts when it comes to its grain directions given what you're seeing? Yeah. Obviously, the hype cycle right now is all about agents, local agents. Open claw, quad code, all that sort of stuff. And our integration stories kinda crap there still. Yeah. Yeah. So but you know, you look at real numbers and, right, yeah, that's obviously that there's a there's a lot of echo chamber and hype around that. But, like, the broader market still is not really in there yet, I think. I think it's still very small. No. It's interesting because I've started to become, like, a cloud code evangelist Yeah. With a local setup. And none of my nobody is doing it. Yeah. It's probably talked to twenty friends by now, and I'm the only one who's doing it. That's very it's very small still even though, like, I I see it everywhere. Right? It's everyone's been doing it, but, I, you know, I think it's still I'll try I'll try and call it by this weekend. And it was very hard to get working. Inclaw? Or Openclaw. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Try I spent, like, two to three hours on it. I messaged Ryan this weekend, and I was like, is this security okay? I recommend it yet. No. But I do think no. I'm sure OpenClaw. I'm not necessarily about Maybe. Oh, yeah. Local and CloudCode is not FlashSpan. Public agents. Yeah. Local agents. Potentially. But, like but I think my point is we probably are still okay from just, like, a market demand because, like, think, like, that market band is still very nascent. But I think it's gonna continue to grow. I mean, could, like, Huddl work is clearly remember a while back, Mike and I were were Slack messaging others, but remember a while back, how Mike was talking about, like, Cursor for knowledge workers? A little bit. Yeah. That's a 100% of what co coworker is getting. Yeah. I mean, that's what they're trying to exactly

**Jeff Whitlock:** what they're trying to not hurt anybody. Using it all, to be honest. So So Cloud Code is very similar to, like, Cursor for workers. CloudCode is very similar. For people that that but they wanna make it even more normies. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. They're trying you know, that sort of thing. Yes. But yep. Potentially. I yeah. I've not seen it. Traction yet so far, but maybe a little bit out there. But I think what Cloud Code will do sorry, Cowork, if it does get more, like, broad market adoption is is kind of push, like, local agents and local stuff a bit even a bit more. Potentially. Yeah. Sure. So, yeah, I mean, local. Agents. I think my the thing that's most on my mind is it parallel to to what Ryan brought up, but it's actual workflows. What may what pieces of information do people need to unlock Yeah. What they need, and that has both automation and and AI side of it, but also within product. I just feel like When you say within product, within our product or within product. Okay. Within our product. Like, I talked with some people last week and just seeing they're like, you just make it so hard for me to get my transcript out. Yeah. Just give me my transcript, you know, like, in all of these different places. I'm like, you're right. If you wanna use it in that way, that workflow like, that doesn't work for you. Or, like, I I think we don't really understand on, like, a user journey sense. How people are using video and clips and stories and what what parts of that information are important and, like, where do they wanna move those next in their workflow? I don't think we have, like, a good thesis on that. So, basically, just and and I like I set up, a bunch of zaps yesterday, and I was like, oh, man. I really wish we had this piece of this piece of information, this piece of information to unlock my workflows. And so I just really don't feel like we we have a solid enough baseline understanding of, like, our 10 most common workflows or something like that. And and how we really unlock value for that. Ironically, like, our main workflow feature that we have in the app stories, we just kinda just let it app Yeah. it Just a little of the buying for many years. I've really invested much there at all. Well, don't disagree, but let me if I may if I may try to edit and see how this lands. It's like I think we well, a couple couple small nuances. One is I think 10 workflows is too many or to try to understand. Top three to find. There you go. Yeah. There we go. Yeah. Second was, I think we did. I think we actually made a a lot of, a lot

**Jeff Whitlock:** of efforts and investment in a workflow that I think none of us really have conviction in anymore, which is like sending notes places. So I might re because I I mean, we did we've done a lot of work with, like, trying to, like, automate Slack notes and automate I think if you step back, rewind the clock a year, maybe even a little more. Yeah. It was like workflow one is the most important thing is syncing your notes into HubSpot. Yep. I still think that's I still think that one still has value. It still was what carries the And and and then we added on top of that work second workflow of automating properties. I think that has proven to be a good investment. Then the second workflow was, like, just copy notes. Send them places. That, I don't think any of us think anyone's doing. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think any of us have any That's good. Yeah. Notes now. Yes. Agreed. So and then the third people sorry. Just on that notes one. I hear from all the time. I take this transcript. I put it in Claude with my own prompts to get my own notes. It works. We've talked to a couple of people in the last week where we're like, if we did that step for you, would you just use Grain? And they're like, yeah. Please do that for me. So, like, custom props. So sorry. Notes could be valuable, but, yes, right now, no. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. What what's happening? That's right. It's just it's not it's not how people wanna do it or think about it. I agree with you. It's almost like there should just be, like, a Single input. Correct. Yeah. Exactly. So I know you wanted to jump in. And, yeah, I guess, one So and then and I could keep going, but I think my point is we I think we did have a lot of beliefs about that. And then I think we're rather than saying we don't have any idea, I would just say, like, the world is changed, and we need to revise our belief. That's true. All of those things were before my time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've been here one year. Those things were never really fully articulated to me other than I helped with the HubSpot property stuff. Yeah. But if those aren't truly things that we're supposed to be anchoring in, why have I not ex like, seen documentation around or or thought about those workflows. I'm just saying they're built into the product as you can see how it's defined. Yeah. I would just love for us more strategically to Yeah. I'm not I'm not disagreeing. I'm not disagreeing. Can I push one level deeper? Yeah. After someone uses Claude, to make their own notes, what do they do with That's always been, like the question I don't understand is, like, They send them to people

**Jeff Whitlock:** or to repositories. Just They send them to people. Like, as in, like, post meeting, just hear the notes from the meeting? Well, most people I've talked to don't actually want notes from the meeting. They want a curated set of, like, here are my action items, user pain points, and something. So they wanna curate the information, so it's only the information they care about. To port into other places. I had a call with a consultant last week, and they're really bad workflow. But they they use the gray note. They copied them They copy the notes into Google Docs. And they added them And then they download it to a PDF. Share Share a SharePoint with their appointment. Yeah. Yeah. But but, like, but, like, it's because that become because they're a consultant, that becomes, like, the artifact of our Yep. Human in the loop. I just wanna be You have editable notes on the Friday. Now the clock. No. Not on bot. They're not in I mean, I'm sorry. Hello? Yeah. Oh, no. There we go. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Well, Edible notes are still not live. They're not live. They're not j. And also also Yeah. Yeah. Also with the integration automation People want a human in the loop step. For a lot of those things. Automations are Yeah. Automatic. We Like, I think we need to, like, rethink our pretty much every integration. Jake and I were talking about, like, the settings now that we're having both desk both bot and desktop captures, like, what level do we push on that for integrations? For people and The dupes issue. Right? We were talking about it last week. Right? Like, the automation automations and dupes are. Yeah. That's theirs. So but I think that more than that, just for, like, the actual use cases, like, I've talked to I I mean, I've I've seen user interactions, like, three times in the last month, but they're like, I don't want my personal stuff sent to HubSpot. Like, don't do that. And so if we were able to say, k. Desktop cap your personal stuff, bot capture your other stuff, and don't have your desktop captures go to HubSpot or something. Like, or some other type of workflow. That makes it so that they can actually accomplish the thing that they're wanting to. I don't wanna switch to You're good. Terms of, like, opportunities that I see, there's it's like we're getting better, you know, just like the capture experience. I feel like we gotta nail the capture experience. And, like, what that experience is like during meeting, post meeting, And then it's, what Ryan's talking about of making use of the data and AI workflows. So, like, for better capture experience, like, better templates is, like, one thing that I've seen in research. It's, like, people just wanna be able get their own to prompt and get their own notes. Like, that would help time, like, bulk

**Jeff Whitlock:** export. Like, our bulk actions are pretty Yes. Like Oh my gosh. Yes. I'm just like, why don't we have a bulk action for downloading a transcript or, like Yeah. Those types of things. So just, like, small quality of life improvements on that, I think, would really help, like, the kinda capture experience side. I guess, wanna really call that metric. Experience. I'm just kinda, like, like, holding the data out Yeah. Even ask, like, it's, like, ask could be a lot better. I've seen several instances of where Andrew's, like I think Andrew posted something last week where he's, like, know this happened, but Aska is not telling me that. Like, I feel that often when I use Ask. You're not gonna get improved, by the way, by Goal. People's embedding The goal. Yeah. So we should look at it and see why it's not if live on our account. All that's just, like, core stuff, but then, like, feature strategic opportunities, like, better making use of the data, better roll ups. Like the idea of roll ups in the field that look at a customer and know exactly what's going on or look at, like, a stand up meeting and, like, an example. A project, whatever. Or this, like, roll up idea. And then I keep hearing mobile too. Like, people wanna be able to capture stuff on their phone as well as be able to, like, playback stuff on their phone. Yeah. I know it a lot. Those are, like, opportunities. And then challenges, like, stuff like we're still question of, like, who are we designing for? Like, I hit that question all the time. And not really sure how to go about it. It feels like it's kinda everybody also, like, complex boards, but also, like, small business of day. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe an option or, like, I guess that's a challenge. I know about an opportunity, but yes. Of fine job of designing. So In some ways, it feels like well, Ryan brought up around agents was, like, opposite of what you're bringing up about ask. Like, to me, I struggle to understand how those two are connected of, like, provide a better you know, local agent integration opportunity, but then also, like, because one is it feels like taking what we capture and using it in another tool. Versus, like, providing the best AI experience in our tool. Which Another conversation we had last year too about, like, we wanna optimize for in product experience or out, and we said, oh, Yeah. So Kinda like if I try asking product it should doesn't give me confidence to, like, Yeah. Kind of But think it's good point, though. Like yeah. Perfect. It's those big big conflict. India, I think the idea was MVP Yeah. In product. Then expose the hooks for deeper integrations out of product. We haven't nailed either. So Yeah. Just pause real real fast. I think I accidentally booted the bot

**Jeff Whitlock:** and I tried to add it back. Then it's gonna be a huge problem. Then I added it, but I think it has to be with my call recorder. No. We're getting audio from you. I just wanna make sure we're we're getting it. It's fine. Now we're getting it. Yeah. Because I also have my desktop capture not capturing the audio at the same time. That is my biggest heartburn right now is local capture is still finicky. I just posted that I wasn't able to get desktop capture working when I did my activation testing. I just tried yeah. And I just tried all day. It said no audio detected. I've had issues starting it. I've had issues stopping it. Like, that gives me so much heartburn moving back to our core model. Well, yes, And it's because recall sucks. Hopefully hopefully, it's recall. Hopefully, it's not. Know if it's some as well, I think. But yeah. No. I just I'm just very convinced that it's the combination of Recall's complex architecture with our you know, consumption of it. Like, I'm not saying on any given bug, there is something we're doing to not handle it right. Yep. But it feels like the numb the surface area of things was just way more complicated than it needs to be. Very delightful. Because they have those they have basically, like, a unique detection pattern for every single app. Yeah. Because they're trying to invest three because they're using the The test three. You mean by necessity? To do what they're wanting to do. Exactly. But but it's all just design choices that we don't you wouldn't need to do if you didn't I mean, we find some of that stuff valuable. But, Jen, Are you in the meeting? Let's wait until we know if you're in that meeting to up the notepad for the bot, for example. Like, that requires pretty deep I mean, I just don't need any of it for I think it's way over engineered for local capture. Local capture. That's what I'm saying. I I we're to be very clear, bots were all were write or die of recall. Logo capture What I'm saying is we're actively using the SDK deep complexity in order to, like, make bots work better. Better. Right? Better UX on bots. That's like And using really, I didn't know that. Just an added reason. So yeah, I mean, we want the complexity. Why do we need to have to take it out? We're using it to detect if you're in the call before we pop up the note pad. Angel problem of, like, the Notepad just popping up whether you're in you're not. Being annoying. So there was to do it. Which I will cry if we get rid that has saved my week. So that was fixed. Yeah. Still getting like this. Nice, but versus the complexity we're dealing with the the rate cost we can. Ficky balance. Okay.

**Jeff Whitlock:** Sorry. We're in the weeds too much of it. Yeah. You were just just said something. What are we talking about? Close, then Jake talked. About. Yeah. My my favorite part is, like, we need to nail the capture experience, and if that's not nailed, then, like, yeah, then these kinda, like, downstream things know how much time it's worth spending talking about, but those things are kind of what Brian's getting at and Taylor's getting at. It's like power agent workflows. Yeah. Part because at a larger company, you would have a group of people over each of these things. You know? Like and that's how you would structure it, and that's you would build it out. So it's really difficult to make trade off on core functionality. Yeah. It seems like yeah, it seems like simplifying things is needed. Because it's just, like, that's what I'm hearing as a being between what you said and what you Like, we can we have to consider too many cases. Mhmm. Which just makes it hard. Too many users, too many workflows too. And when I said 10, it's because I was like, oh, was gonna say five, and I was like, oh, but we have all those sales use cases. Or we have all those, like, other things, and then Yeah. Doubles it. Like, if we're each user, it adds the complexity of three to five workflows. Yeah. And what did you what did you say, I mean? Do you think like, do you think people what would happen if we just not that this is like, what are the sales features that people actually are using these days that matter? Protein and HubSpot. Yeah. Kill deals. Yeah. I mean, deals is I mean, deals is essentially dead. It's just kind of It bear in the UI. Me too. Yeah. It's interesting because we lost we lost oh, we'll see if it happens, but we'll see what happens with podium. And I was talking to them. They're like, oh, yeah. They show it was a way too sales centric product. Because we've never had their sales here. It's always been a problem for me. Yeah. Remove those icons from your sidebar. I feel better. Yeah. I feel like there's a my understanding of deals is or that workflow is just you're just not gonna replace Yeah. HubSpot. Yeah. It would require a lot of investment. A lot. I think I think Gong probably has to some degree. I think Gong usually you don't think so? Gong uses. They still You don't think Gong managers are using their No. That they're still not in that sense. They use the dashboard maybe for, like, you know, like, forecasting or market intelligence. But they're not using it to do deal reviews, pipeline reviews. Yeah. I agree. They're largely using it for coaching. For you know, HubSpot property mapping, node mapping, and then I think what people want people do want insights, but it's

**Jeff Whitlock:** more it's a different kind of insight. They want insight into usability of into usage of the product. They want insight into like, call types, like, more admin managing usage Yeah. To than insights about how fast you're talking. Yeah. You know? Or a varied tracker's page. Yeah. Oh my gosh. So this so I was telling Ryan this morning, with the Zaps, I wanted trackers so bad in the API because I was like, then I can just verbally in a meeting say, oh, that's a future idea. And have it fire a tracker send that I like, send that transcript of an idea to like, linear. Then I don't have to go through that whole process. Like, that has so much potential to be powerful, but we just haven't built a workflow around it. It's just sitting there. Oh, think it's just the challenge is what Gong has taken this approach is they've like, essentially, preconfigured trackers. So they have, like, a ton of they automate the tracking. They'll start, like, tracking things that you say. But they have the ability to just do those sort of functionality where it's like the maybe some users will see it, maybe some users won't. You know? I feel like we just have to rely on people setting it up to to really use it. And it's just such a hard complex feature to set up. Like, it's not straightforward on how Like, No. And it doesn't have a straightforward output, and it doesn't Yeah. And it's like, is it just for me? Is this for everyone? Like, what what is happening? Like, we just don't have a clear there's so much potential though in tracking what you say Yeah. Which was another thing that I wanted to go back to just about, like, incremental data. Like, I think that we just have like, that is the value proposition of green is we have these pockets of data that you want access to. Like, it's our job to give you access to them. And I think that's just trackers as a way that we could do that. I've heard of people using Ask to do it now instead of even trackers. Yeah. Which scares me because I don't know how Inconsistent. Inconsistent ask. It was like, hey. Show me how many times this has been talked about in meetings. And I'm like, oh, not great. Not a great use of our ask. But there's trackers to do it. You know? And it's like That right now is not Yeah. It's not. Like, reliable. Yeah. Another thing I really wanted was consistency. So we have highlights as an API tool. But we don't allow highlights on local captures. And so I just want to flag on local captures, like, when something was important the same as I do with it wanting a clip. Like, I want that information, and I want it to fire the same way. Like, in those automations. So,

**Jeff Whitlock:** anyway, I'm I'm down a hole, but, like, there are just so many workflows that we haven't just we haven't completed. Like, they're they're halfway there. Yeah. We just need to finish them. Yeah. And, I mean, to your to that point, I think I think few are better. Because it's just given the reality of our team size, I think hard to finish them all. You know? Mhmm. There's, like, three buckets. There's, like, the ones that we think are very, very important, we need to finish. The ones that we think someday maybe we'll leave them there in their zombie state for a while, And the ones who are like, this is just no there's no commitment to this at any time in the future, and we need to just replicate or hide for all new users or whatever. Some some deprecation path. It's crazy. I was looking at this feature I'm looking at this feature Let me put this up here. It's very interesting. A feature request? No. No. Feature in Google. Oh. Data table thing. We have the integration. I think you mess something up in here, though. Some reason there's it's missing something. Anyway, I can fix it later, but okay. Here we go. This is really interesting. MCP tool called. 2% of DAUs, but an average 49 times. For Yeah. D is very too old call. Copy. Yeah. Better would be, like, sessions, MCP sessions. Sessions rather than full call? Full call. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good point. It's a little high amount of DAUs. Yeah. Ask prompts submitted. That's crazy. Do you think I have to ask on the meeting page? We can look at it. I was just By far, it was on the meeting page Yeah. Most often. Yeah. I mean, you can just I was actually just looking at that when we were talking. Why is setting page view so high? Yeah. That's a great question. Changing their settings every day. We should we should actually look into that because we saw just before in October, there was a lot of settings changed in the onboarding. I wonder if there was an increase in going back to the settings afterward. As well? Yep. The settings page viewed getting triggered by onboarding. It's considered part of onboarding now. Go to the Atkat. Can you group by And then I can group by contact. Alright. Four. That's interesting. That curve follows exactly media viewed. I mean, it should. But Yeah. It's not money. Be good. He owns this. Well, it's probably me every time I show it. Potentially, could that people ask about deal. Like, that's my only way to frame it now. It's like, oh, yeah. Well, it's built to give you a page where you can use ask to ask about your HubSpot deals. And Why not? K. Sorry to get there. We'll just separate like, let's draw wide in the sand and send an email and say, hey. This

**Jeff Whitlock:** is going away in a month. Yeah. Well, what do we just do for all the Asians too? We'll definitely start off in the Yeah. That we should do that today. I I hate these half measures, though. We always do that half measure. Turn off half today, and then I'll send you on the Yeah. I mean, here's the here the challenge with all this stuff is but I I I agree with you. And of us have confidence that it's a good thing. Like, URL. It contains URL. No. But it's in deal slash. It more than once. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Let's be nice here. No. No. Stranded than or equal to. So Yeah. Can I not do that? No. Click filter on the page views. So go over I'll write right back again. No. Do greater than instead of greater than or equal to. Why are we seeing so many This is why we have that measured. It's not that it's not that many, but the growth No. Well, you're only doing the last thirty days, so it immediately No. That's September. Oh. Yeah. He's, like, truncating Oh, to the last thirty. You gotta do? Yeah. You gotta do the whole, like, So these are people who are yeah. So yeah. And We can be the last twelve weeks. Yeah. So it's a 140 verse or mean, just 100 less. 100 new user. It was two two eighty. Someone get Mario out of it. Just don't know who these people are. I did not know that button existed. I have created so many cohorts. That I did not need to. Oh, yeah. This is killer. This is killer for lean research. I I can't believe you did it both, like Hey. Hey. We're we're learning together. I understand. This is, my main work my main workflow. It has email, but, also, it has the onboarding surveys over it. Is it work type? Yeah. Go it's like a you no. No. No. Scroll back. Scroll back. It's in the a c or something like that. It's d? Oh, no. No. A a q a q. There is actually Well, I wanna see the actual responses. Here we go. Yeah. 80. B to b and then they're a z is what their work type is. Sales leader, CEO, founder, account manager, CEO, sales rep. Sales rep. Sales leader This doesn't make any sense to me. Who knows? No. There's a lot of sales leaders here. That's a clip. Founder and sales leader are clearly the modes. Okay. Know. Focused. Yeah. Like, you can just see this real path. Insert. People. And I'm gonna do Well, is it work is it work type? Type? Right? Yeah. And then you just do this. And then it just changes. There you go. Undo. What? There is But, anyway Or should your Oh, I'm here on the role labels. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The site? Think Other Everybody's favorite. Yeah. Sales leader. Sales

**Jeff Whitlock:** leader. Founder c suite. Sales rep, yes, it's clearly Just other it's just people who, like, it's so funny watching people go through onboarding. Like, there'll be a role name for them, but they're like, that's not my title. Like Yeah. They get very yeah. People are just so weird and like, oh, well, I'm technically, like, RevOps or not, like, or, like You could do another another here where you do. Revenue, operation, and, like, can I just say sales leader? Like, you didn't need to be the VP of revenue operations. You could have just been sales leader. They did. What type stated? Yeah. Sales ops. Oh, that. Like, Interesting developer engineer. I am student. Founder? Because we didn't have a founder of Rogue. They decided they needed to Marketing. Head of growth. Head of craft. Just say sales. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Anyway, there's a bunch of salespeople using this, but it's not that many. The thing the thing, though, that the the the reason why we get tied up in knots of the scrap is because you don't know who who are these 33 people Do they matter? They all could be, like, really important account. Same with the founders. So Exactly. Anyway, you can go back and look at this one. But I like the I I think getting rid of this is still a good idea. Anyway, There are other ways to structure the product so it feels more tailored to a person. Like, if they are sales AE, like, if they are those things, then maybe we do do show deals. We do show info. Like, we we show those things, And if they're not those things, then we don't show them or we we have it opt in or something. When I drive here this morning, I was like, not show any these features. Again, this violates some of the things that we punched out, but, like, like, unless you, like, opted into a business account or something or, like, unless sales turns it on for you or something like that. Yeah. And I'll book. We get into the state where none of us in this room know what features are on for what type of people and, like Oh, it would be on for everyone for us. It would be more on for us. But you're right. I know. That's the kinda Like, we can, but I I don't know. Sometimes I just have apprehension about, like, Well, that's why, like, instead of trying to be too fancy, you just it's banked on role. You're a sales role. If you're not a sales role, pop. Yeah. That and that's it. Just keep it that simple. And if someone is, hey. I didn't see this, and we're like, oh, it's because you didn't sign in the onboarding thing your sales. I've turned it on for you. Yeah. Like, that's true. That's a little bit easier for us to keep track of. What are

**Jeff Whitlock:** you offering on the users, though? All or all non sales? Don't know. They there's never Not investing in sales either. Right? Honestly. No. That's the problem. But, anyway okay. But that's still I think we're getting a little tactical. But that nonetheless, I think there's a I'm I'm still think the thematic point I'm hearing is, like, a need to simplify the amount of surface area we have to consider as a team. Even if we say we're not even if we say we're not investing in these areas, it's still a surface area that we feel responsible for, that we have to test, that we have to Yeah. I think that's generally correct. I would say, though, to Jake's point earlier, it's not just surface area. It is use case. Yeah. Because those use cases relate to certain surface areas. Yeah. And so if we're able to cut out certain use cases from our core, then we can focus on the ones that we actually do care about. Can I ask a question, Jake? Yeah. So I'm gonna ask a very naive version of this question. The sake of not biasing the witness. It if you reframe it something like this, because right. So right now, there's one way in which you could you could say the following and Okay. So right now, it's like, there are horizontal products. Right? Very horizontal. And then there are over here, they're very vertical. Or very, like, either company or persona specific. Vertical products. Where do you see us on that met on that scale? Like, somewhere in the middle of that scale? Because I mean Yeah. Yep. Okay. So then if you were to go strong with the point of view one way or the other, would it resolve your prob? Point view would it feel better for you? Yeah. So it feels like we're, like, in an awkward middle. Right. We're being pulled. Yeah. It's either, like, just go really horizontal, and we're just saying we're super horizontal. Yep. Or go much more vertical. It's like a very awkward middle. Yeah. Exactly. Is that a fair I think, like, the feedback from Podium, like, this looks like a sales tool. It's like it's kinda army knife, but we're kind of, like, not fully supporting sales things. So Yeah. Yeah. And if we went that way, That way is in horizontal? Or Is it that way this way. It looks like it's x. Starboard. I was pointing. That if we went to more vertical we need to choose a vertical. Correct. Yeah. Because we have many. Well, here's a let me ask a double question. When you say choose a vertical, do you mean choose a persona or choose a company type? I mean persona. More so than company type. I think if I and just voice my opinion on both the vertical versus, like, horizontal. Opening up that discussion. My concern with horizontal is the Google Meet issue. Which

**Jeff Whitlock:** is just their potential to erode your market position. Like, I feel like we have heavily invested at least my opinion, in, like, I mean, I think desktop capture notepad, all these are very horizontal features. Like, they should appeal to pretty much everyone. Right? Like, great notes, great notepad, great Yeah. Simple capture. But the concern is obviously, like, Google Meet, I think, just plays a very looming concern there versus vertical My fear is that one we are we too late to choose a vertical? Like, in the sense of, like, just, like, has you know, as we've talked about the different types of verticals we could potentially define, like, has some We're too late for sale. I think. I think we're too late for sales. Yeah. I would say though, like, from what what we have and the people that we can talk to, I think we could make a play for, like, the maniac ubiquitous automator. You know, what Solo consultants. Consultants. Consultants. Product c suite, like, the founder, like, all of those types of people who are, like, I need a tool to run like, to give me all of the information on everything and put it into where I need it go and have it do the things that I It's kinda weird, though, because I also disagree, but I also, in some ways, think about that as being somewhat vertical or horizontal. It could be. I it's just like it's just like a kind of a It's a vertical that crosscuts multiple. Yeah. Still a pretty bad thing. Like, it's dumb. It's still a persona about it. It's not a it's not a role. No. It's a good one. Persona. Yeah. And and that's the difference between a role and persona. It's like, a persona has jobs to be done that are gonna be the same across multiple role types. Yeah. Yeah. It is hard to have a it is hard to have negatives on a I disagree. Think In b b SaaS, it's very hard. It's not Are are you talking to sales? Like, selling perspective? It's hard from a market because I'm like, I'm a product perspective, that's real fun. No. No. No. No. I'm just talking from, like, a communicating marketing. Yeah. Yeah. It's very hard. I don't it's hard. It's better to just kind of be able to home. Yeah. At least I anyway, at least some I I I think this. Is, for example, like, I shared this before. It's like a private meeting that I think better than it feels like I'm fully it's like local only granola. Right? Like, none of your data leaves your your Who is that? Slimit.box.ai. I just found them. Like, I have no idea if they have any track or anything like that. But nevertheless, I think it's an interesting vertical that will crosscut many different things, but it's harder to that's the being felt full to individual sure, not to,

**Jeff Whitlock:** like Yeah. And that agent one is just where you get in the bot. I don't think you can do that. I'm just thinking it's tricky. I have no idea what that h one is selling me. Your private Yeah. Meeting Private meeting companion for better conversation So Like, what is a what what tool am I giving? I'm trying to free file up. Here, I'll show it to you. There there's been We're doing a b I want I want the I know what I want. I want meeting capture, but I wanna pry It's probably people that didn't feel stupid. Yeah, That's what we talked about. The AI notetaker for getting work done. Yeah. Like, but, like, leveraging that and being like, we have everything We have all of your videos content. We have all of your transcripts, and we give it to you where you want it, when you want it, how you want it to get work done. Like Yeah. I think that's a great it's it's difficult to sell to a person like, to to a an org, I think. Try to sell to an org. Yeah. But many people buy it. Mean, you never know. Yeah. So that's Is Bill's horizontal or vertical with you? Feels horizontal with the targeted persona. It's a it's a first It's a it's specific persona. Yeah. But it is horizontal from a company type perspective and probably from a role perspective too. Yeah. Mhmm. But it's but it is a persona which cuts down the complexity of having multiple workflows for different personas. Yeah. Persona is the AI two down. Maybe and to Ryan's point though earlier, maybe market isn't ready for that yet. So think automation. I think it's I think that that that opportunity. Early days are good opportunities because you can move out ahead of other people Yeah. And we have the richness of data that I and if we lean into that, I think we could be a really good first mover in that space. Yeah. Because they're they're almost not gonna give you everything. No. Say more. Like, granola is a notepad, a notetaker. Like, I haven't seen robust integration API, like, Yeah. Stuff like that. Think the interesting thing I've seen from canola is that they look to be focusing on the product vertical, which is a very strange strategic decision. Then they've done that. Let me just talk about potentially the worst logo rebrand of all time. 100%. Oh my gosh. The Apple Yeah. And and the Mayster Apple. Right? Too. Yeah. Like I get it. I don't know. Rich probably should take a well, I was like, you know, like, so ugly on the on the, like, We'll make the product feel, like, face holding me too, to be honest. I don't know. Little kid. They can they, you know, they can keep doing what they're doing. Probably in the world's best product is That is that is great too.

**Jeff Whitlock:** Right? That's their new positioning. All in on it because I moved it up to, like, their like, that's super strong positioning for them. They only got it. They have maple. Headway into sales because of but they they added HubSpot. Right? They definitely added HubSpot. Then it looking at the this getting the new and done, like, I mean, But, like, I mean, maybe they're trying to pivot more into that space. I don't know. I this is the older messaging than this. This is new for them. Okay. The top one is I mean, the examples meeting notes are essentially a sales call. Right? Like, scroll up intro call with AirFound, a 100 employees, adding 20 more next next quarter. $180 per employee per year. Too expensive. Yeah. It seems to me that they're not sure what they're doing. Oh, we got a lot of money, so yeah, I've got some luxury of not having to know what they're doing for a while, I think. Oh, yeah. $100,000 office. Oh my gosh. Right, girl. So that was that's I have three dollar. That's that is that is the category of. A satire. Right? She's really she's a really nice person. But she so funny because if you meet her in person or in over Zoom, she's not that persona at all. Fine. It's for sure. Amanda, recall Recalled cofounder. Like, all of her stuff is, like, the nine nine six culture's back. Like and do all these things. And I'm like, I remember you're close. I'm like, I'm not good enough. I'm like, I don't know. Oh, you must have to learn me. That's me. You're hella been happier like Yeah. You're not. They're all families and you burning the candle. They're partners, though. That'd kinda fun. I thought that was Lucius Park. I don't mean to live that again. Oh, and are they are they like, romantic partners? Yeah. They are. No. I I don't. Okay. I just do not know. I I didn't know that that one. I thought they were just like, she the one that posted about the the gym in June? What? She might be married, but I could be wrong about it. You might go out. Okay. So that's three unhinged things that we've talked about from the same person. That's hilarious. Yes. ER loves posting their posts. Oh, we got kicked out of four gyms because we all swerved down onto the gym and go to the gym together. We're building gym. They're Yeah. Like, the LinkedIn, bro. I think she's not a woman. So since bro, it's like LinkedIn bro poetry, That's what it is. Usually, it's men writing those things, and so I'm like, oh, okay. You can go be a weird dude. And then with her, I'm like, oh, she's a oh, she's really cool. You're not good enough. Anyway know, that's, yeah, so funny. Okay. Well, this has been a great discussion. Yeah. What his last couple

**Jeff Whitlock:** minutes? No. I think I think, like, think this is good because I I think it we're there's all I feel like there's a lot of at least at a mid level alignment of simplify the personas, simplify the store workflows, simplify the use cases, obviously, the question is what on all those. But I think the next time we chat, I'll share out some of the stuff I've been learning. I've been I've been working a lot on talking to independent consultants. And pursue potential as a you know, vertical focus. I also think that I also agree with you, though, that, like, whether it's horizontal or vertical, I don't know exactly. But I think there is a I also think there is a delay that it's that's awkward, no, like the doctor sent you. It's much more I think did that feel aligned with what you're saying now? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. As long as we but it felt unmoored for the hoop. Yeah. It felt unmoored for who are we solving for. Yeah. And I like the idea of the the consultants but from talking today, I'm realizing that I have more confidence in a persona than Yeah. Than a consistent specific just could have people within that within that that's like, the persona, the consultants, the founder, the product person, and, like, see, like, oh, with certain features, are there nuances for each of them that we should add? But it it's not like build a whole new feature for this person. Yeah. Yeah. It's like nuances two features that we have. It's the right word for it. Would not that's I describe it. It's, like, the nontechnical hacker. Productivity hackers, and like that. I don't know how you would Yeah. AI influencer. Not that. Like, when I when you described it earlier, it's it's Adrian Head. Yeah. It's Mike. Yes. It's it's us. To some degree. Yeah. Like, it it's the built like, the builders. I'm trying to call it automator because it's not Hold on. I'm struggling a bit. I feel like it's gonna keep pushing push up. I feel like the the time to be done is, like, yeah. I don't know. Maybe. Correcting it. Like Yeah. Yeah. You know, it's different. I can see that. Like, it's weird to call that out versus the when it's, like, my job's be done. It's, like, use my meeting data to power workflows. Yes. But that's That's what I was try I was because I kind of had it from a respect. Response to Jake, but I do also get what you're getting at. So that's why I like, saying, like, the dinker or, like, the Yeah. Productivity hacker. Like, Like, what would you call Adrian head? I mean, if you ask Katie, he's, like, a consultant. Right? Like, does it always make sense? No. But that doesn't give us the workflow. But if you were to describe him, like, not by his title, but

**Jeff Whitlock:** just, like, who he is as a person, Yeah. It's, like, tech forward. Tech forward. Exactly. Like, productivity hacker. I mean, I mean, hackers are some other word like that. I think that's kinda what you're doing as, like, a tech or productivity optimizer or something like that. Yeah. Yeah. No. I guess yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That could be a frame. Specific. And then within that, it's like there are a bunch of potential jobs to be done But, like, I think the most the one that, like, is in the doc I sent Taylor, which is just, like, get the transcript data into my AI tool. Super simple. But in a in a way that is leverageable. Correct. Yes. Right. Exactly. And what we're missing there is, like, filtering on MCP It's exposing all of our like, or the search, at least, like, search with the MCP. Like, there's just so many things to help improve that, like, out all of my tags, all of my trackers, all of the things that I've given you if it let me use them. You know? I think, yeah, I think the biggest I think the biggest technical decision on if that's sort of, like, who what, and then, like, the more detailed how or how how was, like, do you invest in MCP? Do you invest in local or do you invest in chat with GPT? Like or do you invest in copy and pasting? I think copy and pasting is table things. I think it's making that, like, everywhere a lot more accessible, like, bulk copy paste, bulk markdown download. I think it's also automation. It's And I think the Say more with your So sending it to certain integrations. Like, improving those experiences and getting the notes the way I want them in order to send them to those places. So either the That's a very big philosophical question. It's like, do we do you make it so the notes are the right ingrain, or you just get the raw data? From what Wow. Depends on on the other Yeah. Their their workflow, probably. I think it's I think you need both. Yeah. Because least. I think in the product would serve the most. People. Yeah. I agree. You have to I think if you don't focus on that, you lose a lot of leverage during onboarding. But you can but you could say that, like, what we have is fine. It's just a different point of view. It's like a to me, it's a very different point of view of, like, get you use a GUI that we build to get your notes perfect and possible side grain versus the text enriched transcripts is the ultimate data. And you're gonna use that in your other tools. Yeah. I think eventually, you can't do both. Us to get the first one right. So for that one, for that reason, maybe because what I I agree one thing this is

**Jeff Whitlock:** Jake. Like, Jake who's the the old founder, he he'd ping me on this. Mike's ping me on this. Think you said something very similar. Like, I've seen it a ton lately where people just, like, I want the data in my AI tools. Yes. And I think that's a very crisp point of view. Like, well, you just kinda made fun of us thirty minutes ago where he said the answer was both of them. Yeah. And it's kind of like like I said, like, we have a small team. Like, acknowledging we have a small team, making trade offs in accordance with that reality is probably how we make progress instead of trying to do a bunch of stuff kind of fine. As a front end loving Yeah. Like, lover of product, I want to build it. But I think the better answer is getting it. Into the tools. Yeah. I think and then and then I think the nuance there is, like, I think the right to play is during the meeting, like, and that's what the notepad is. The notepad is a way to, like, think about enriching that data. Yeah. Which is essentially what Ganola did. Right? They just provided the best But they didn't read the I mean, notes in the product. Yeah. But that's what people love is that the fact that they provided a really great in meeting experience. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. Yeah. What I'm saying, I don't think what I'm what I'm saying is I don't think They didn't do the yeah. No. They didn't. I don't think that ever became the thing that made them But, you know, who did do that? I think, really well was Fathom. They did the follow-up part. Really well where it's like, they show all send have that, like, whole list of, like, send your notes to Google Docs. Like, they just made it really easy and simple to, like, do that where I go next with these notes. And I think functionality. I think it is so there's two ways here, like you said. There's make the notes what I want. And help me send it where I want it to be sent to which inside of Grain. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Awesome with inside of Grain. Yeah. Or there is then all of our energy on back end getting the data in the way that it should be to feed it elsewhere and encourage people to go there and do it. I think And you could have, for example I'm just riffing you. It's like, you could do it, like, yes, and you could have, like, in the UI affordances to be, like, send the transcript or copy the transcript to all these different players. You kinda, teach users that's what Yeah. I mean, there's so many dimensions here. Like, there's so many dimensions. That's like, user stickiness. There's, like, product you know, products habit formation and all that stuff where if

**Jeff Whitlock:** we just push the data out, we're losing a lot of that. Yes. But not if you have a great in in meeting experience. Yeah. Yeah. Like, if you think about it, it's philosophically if in the meeting is there to provide more context to the transcript, like, that to me feels And and enrichment ahead of time. So that the enrichment end time. Yeah. Say more about that. Like, integration and stuff like that. Right? Like No. It doesn't really need much. Like and that's I don't really in that world because, like, if you the history of the whole, like, we were one of the first people to ship AI notes. And back then, it was, like, the models could barely take a meet. Remember we were doing, like, it even couldn't even take a meeting. Like, we would have a meeting of, like, an hour and a minutes, the models can handle that. Chunk it up and then just memorize the chunks. And so I think a lot of this is, like, what I'm seeing just, like, mean, I appreciate the opportunity to work through it with all you is, like, what I'm seeing is, like, there's I'm trying to see, like, there's a lot of just, like, in our space, there's a lot of old assumptions that are carrying over and an opportunity to, like, rethink things from new capabilities that would give us an opportunity to be early and move first So it'll be cool instead of Yeah. That demo I posted in product, like, a week and a half ago. It's like when you're doing that local capture. Like, oh, local capture offline. Like, part of the provocation there was, like, the only UI is the capture. And then after the capture is done, it just files on your disk, and you use clock code to do whatever you want with it. That's the workflow. Right? It's sort of the capture the the capture is the only work that we provide. How do you do that? Mean, like, know, it's, like, sharing Like, if you wanna have, like, synchronized in between other people, you could add, like, a sync engine or whatever. But, like, for your local stuff. File like this. And then that's the ultimate. You know, feed and then workflow. I think it's interesting. I think it's a challenge to think about, like, how does that turn into, like, a product that you sell as much? I think there's options. But that was kind of, like, a provocation that, you know, Jake and Mike I was kind of exploring a little bit as to, like, what it could look like. I think once we land on our strategy and our like, our persona and, like, the who the why, the what, Like, we really need to figure out what assumptions are from the old world. Like, even in hearing that, if we went in that direction, Teams doesn't make sense anymore. Or,

**Jeff Whitlock:** like, I kinda disagree. Because that's that's how you monetize. My my my the permission layer. Sharing. Okay. Okay. But for my my thing is, yes. Like, if you don't monetize my local captures like that Yeah. That that's just your growth mechanism. Yeah. And then once you want to share manage assets across, I think Most of the, you know, host clips, all that sort of stuff. Okay. You could sell that. So bad example, but Yeah. No. No. Of go back and That would I think what what's we're I feel like afraid to put we're afraid to put ourselves at risk and to lose what we've built so far. But in order to, like, a line in the sand and be something Yeah. You have to. You have to. Yeah. For sure. And and I'm But I think the reason why frankly, we haven't done it yet is because it it's like a scale. Like, you need enough excitement and conviction to be willing to do that. And Yeah. I don't think we've I should just speak for myself. I've never got to remember, like, I believe it's always been, like, we're second or third, and you're not gonna win because the person who was first has already had a deal. The wall with Sprout for sure. Like, Yeah. What what is you know? Like, agentic something, you know, and we never we never figured out Yeah. But I'm starting to see something along these lines that feels like this is where the future is. Yeah. This is worth betting on. Because it's all about just, like, is it worth betting? Mhmm. You know? But I agree with you. Like, really doing it requires willing to sacrifice some of past and again, it's like I said, it's a balance between the two. There's very little yeah. Yeah. We can talk to Phil about that latest. Cool. Well, we're overtime. This is awesome. Any any final thoughts or questions? So what I think I'd like to do is I'd like to one of the things that I also wanna inform or like, the permission structure and context carrying to be able to just, like, share more, like, work in progress stuff with you guys about as I'm spending time on this. I don't wanna give you a lot more work so you don't need to feel pressure to you know, oh, man. I gotta read this. Quite a ton of thoughtful feedback. It's more just like, follow the thoughts, and then we'll reconvene and discuss. So we're coming back into the next cycle of this with kind of, like, a shared context and shared journey. Does that sound okay? Yeah. Cool. So I'll probably I'll probably be sending you all just some kind of, like, half formed docs that are not, like, formal. They're not like, this is what we're doing. Was like, this is what a straw man of this direction would look like and what your

**Jeff Whitlock:** know? What are your thoughts? Reactions? Cool. Alright. Thanks, everyone. Google I know. That's not their, like, modality. Deep Google integration. Like, okay. You're using Google. Likely I know. You're more disrupted. Yeah. I mean, you are, like, reliant on them even more. Right? You're another building on some of platform. I mean, it's definitely a play. It's just a play. I would have felt a little more confident a year ago or two years ago. Like, because you know, whenever people start adopting something, that's always there's always not gonna be, like, it's good, but it's not quite good enough. I wish there was, like Correct. I agree. A little bit further. We can end the meeting. Probably not.