---
title: "Q1 2026 Board Meeting"
date: 2026-04-22T16:09:35Z
duration: 121 min
participants: ["Jeff Whitlock", "Mike Adams"]
attended: true
processed: false
source: grain
grain_id: 968c7fec-4b6a-45fb-ae44-2cea9d4acfd9
grain_url: https://grain.com/recordings/968c7fec-4b6a-45fb-ae44-2cea9d4acfd9
---

**Jeff Whitlock:** Yeah, I always like to learn a little faster path. Okay. You're gonna say something, Mike, and now we're recording. Yeah, the soil preamble like around. The, because this isn't for investors, it's not performative. I think that like the theme. That we have been, I've been kind of like reoccurring since probably Q3 board meeting. Has been like every quarter is a set of like marginal ROI bets. Like we have a business that is very self - servy. And like we could put in maintenance mode and we could operate with like much more like cash flow than we do. But we operate at break even with a clear like ROI mandate for like forward progress and showing up the business and stuff. And so I think for several quarters, it felt like we were kind of going through quarters without clear driving of results or moving of needles. That we said we wanted to move. And this quarter felt like, I feel like I established a pretty clear like expectation. We really needed to do that with Squarter. And I feel like we, you know, we didn't. Grow to 10 million dollars ARR or anything. Or like, you know, become a viral sensation, but it does feel like there is early signal and direction on the things we said we wanted to move. And at a like kind of qualitative feeling on the product around improvement polish, just like, you know, improvements in UX. There's still, you know, ways to go. But it felt like a productive quarter. So I just wanted to kind of share that like a bit of a framework that we want to keep going around this quarter around thinking about this in terms of, you know, ROI on the investment may make. And I thought this quarter was a great, like, kind of shift and embrace of that. Um, direction. So anyway. Talk to you. Any questions, Jake, on that awesome. Okay. So. And just, just to kind of. Tail on what Mike just said, I think this is probably a good, a good thing to, um. A good thing to review is effectively we had three things that we were really focused on. One was improving. The new user experience to be single player and desktop focused around capture. We got most of the way there. We did not, still one thing that's getting held up by this ridiculous cert thing. But as you can tell, like if you go to grain. com is now desktop app. And the next thing that we're going to ship is essentially the onboarding is just for desktop capture. Um, so some of the things we shipped along this share monster sugar. Yeah. Recite shield. Let's see. I have to present. So, uh, so the big things that we shipped in this and the kind of moved on in this vein are a lot of, a lot of cleanup and onboarding and bugs, but we,

**Jeff Whitlock:** we did a, uh, the new homepage, which is like combining calendar and meeting. Um, we shipped Windows desktop capture without it. For a long time, um, we shipped so that like the desk, the onboarding is around desktop app. And then the last remainder thing that we committed to shift last quarter, which is codenkly and ready to turn on with feature flags, but we're just holding off until we get a window sir is an onboarding update that is just about capture and not bought. And that's something where we may realize, um, it's, we're, we're kind of framing that as an experiment. Like we may learn that actually we want to keep auth as part of the part of the journey because whatever marginal improvements you get from the less friction, you lose from the value video. So I think we're open to learning there. But, um, that's the last remaining bit from the, from the quarter. Did ship the way does that stuff up, but it is still, it's not impacting the numbers because of the search. Windows desktop capture is shipped and live, but we're not making it the primary CTA on the homepage because what was happening is like people who never heard about Grain or downloading Grain and then they were getting a windows like warning app and like the numbers were just horrific. We kept it open for like two or three days. And so I pulled that back. So we have a different CTA on if you're on a Windows machine, you go to our homepage, it still says sign up. Okay. And then they sign up and have a web - based experience. Have we ran an experiment of desktop only at all. Yet? That's, that's what we're waiting on. Um, so Mac is desktop all right now. Sorry. Yes. I interpret what you said to say and despo only being and local capture only. Yes. Well, sorry. Let's that local capture only. So we're halfway through that in the sense that like when you go to grain. com, it's download Grain. You download an app, but they're still bought. You still set your auto record settings with the bot and the onboarding flow. The thing that's done and ready to be shipped is it's only oriented towards depth local capture on your machine. You can still like on the homepage, you can still, uh, you can still select a bot and then it'll onboard you into bots. But the default flow today, if I'm on a Mac is local capture or not, no, it's, it's still the bot flow. Okay. And do we think we need to windows to be able to at least try that or expect? Yeah. It's, it's too, we didn't build that flow with like the different OSs. So we're that's waiting for on behind a feature flag until we steal with the search issue. Okay. Oh, I thought that we were in that world.

**Jeff Whitlock:** No, the world we're in is that if you go to grain. com. Mac, but for Mac, sorry. Let me do it down with the app. I just want to download the app and you do have like you have a partial experience, but you still can set your auto report settings. Bought out. And Otto desktop is not on. It is. It is. It is. Yes. So that, but the reason the reason why is we're waiting on the CERT issue because we can't distinguish that new desktop flow between Mac and Windows or what we could, but it'd be like a lot of work to, it's a lot of work. Obviously longer this drags out. Maybe that makes sense to do the work. Yeah. But I thought we had it in two days, but anyway. And that'll be done. And that'll be done tomorrow. Cause I'm going to get the shirt today. So very up there. Well, I said made it all the docs yesterday. Yeah. I did think that all the took me it took me two days the first time. I'm good. Yeah. It's just it's, it's valuable to know that because that changes my interpretation of the, of the trend. That that to me is one of the biggest levers of the priority the quarterback. I think the like if you can see there's definitely this up swing. I think the more when we think it's because I thought that what I thought that was live and that's what was when I, when I did the announce, it's clearly the homepage when you ship that around here. You see an ups you've seen uptick. And the reason why is because you now have a single home page, you see upcoming calendar meetings. There's now a clear CTA that says like new and you can start a recording. And then the second thing is the desktop is the desktop capture. Also, if you look at the, I created a dashboard on this, but if you look at. Mac users who start on download, you are losing someone signups, but you're getting a lot more activated users. On the backside of it. So for example, this is, I need to update the cohorts here a little bit, but this still gives you ideas. Like this is active users. And it's basically apples to apples. So the same color window and you're getting a lot more active users. On both sides of the, of the experiment. So, so. Like. So anyway, the MAC cohort is performing better than the windows cohort. And even when you look back to mac, so this is the pre - cohort and this is the post cohort. So if you go back to the deck, it says Windows. sub capture. So we. Shipped that for people who have the new Windows app. So the new app. And so we've killed the old people can still download the app at the onboarding flow. They

**Jeff Whitlock:** just have the skip option. We didn't mandate it for everyone. But I'm just confused at the CERT warning. You know, scary people away. So the people like they didn't, we may have people download the desktop out before that wasn't an issue. They popped them. I don't know. But like it's a signed app. I don't know why it suddenly started popping up. We never saw until we shipped the new build with, with, uh, yeah, I don't know. Okay. What's the breakdown between windows on the signups? Just users. Uh, we're way maxed skewed, but it's starting windows is catching up though. I think windows is to expect the biggest expansion opportunity. Like all my clients are on windows two to three. So they're all like 0365. Yeah. Like if you do, uh. Just a simple, like, um. This isn't going to be great. Cause it's going to break it into a bazillion. But it gives you an idea. So this like Mac is, um, you know, the highest by far, but, um. You're definitely seeing like windows growing. I need a group of better, but I give you some. But the functionality to local capturing is live for people who have the desktop app. Yeah. It's interesting. Cause I feel like I've been having people download the desktop app and they download the desktop app. They don't explain, you know, I haven't heard of any scary warnings. And then they go to do local capture and good. It was just grayed out. So now for the people who have it, it's not great out. It's shipped. Okay. Cool. Um, the other thing that's like not. Necessarily in your like list of projects. It's like deeply correlated and likely driving is that migration of the separated calendar page and the meetings page together. Sorry. Oh, you're saying it's not on this side and the project list. Yeah. Yeah. Homepage would be like the reason why it's not. It's because website. That was a carryover from the previous quarter while we committed to. So I should have added it still, but this was just like the things that we said we were going to do this quarter as part of this quarter streaming. So, but yes. But I agree that clearly has had an impact. Yeah. Um. The other thing we did too, that I still need to do more analysis as we, we reduced the number of onboarding questions by. I think, uh, I still need to like do a micro flow, but we just shipped that too. Cause it was just way too long. I'm just looking at it from a data driven perspective is that. The majority of what's on the right hand side is either recently shipped or not actually. Like in play. To where the impact that you would expect that to have in terms of driving a numbers is still yet to be realized. But yet the positive trend, which is good. Yeah.

**Jeff Whitlock:** I think there's going to be more upside. For sure. Um, the next one we'll talk about, I'm going to skip this one because that's kind of the framing for the go forward conversation. Do you want to talk about this one. Ben? Yeah. Since you did a lot of. Yeah. Um. I mean, part of obviously trying to be profitable is just cutting cost. So there was really like we kind of bucked it into two efforts. One was things that require little to no engineering effort. And then the medium effort are really things that required some additional support from engineers to get over the line. Um, obviously with priority on. Getting, you know, unstuck on some of our, uh, engineering, you know, a main product initiative. Some of the medium efforts are kind of carrying over into Q2, but we did capture about half of, you know, 81, 000 so far has been captured. Uh, and then we have three more or four, I would say large projects that needed engineering efforts, uh, which are in progress, um, currently. And so we should hopefully capture all those. And then that'll be about 165K in total annualized savings from things that we cut in Q1. So yeah, Igor's going to finish that project this week. Yeah. We're going to follow up recap emails. I get why that's expensive because we're like, we configured what is the actual engagement with it like a button more than with pop open. Well, my thing is we didn't even know what the engagement was. Yeah. Couldn't attract. So we're not removing a feature. It's just now being on, on demand compute as opposed to pre - compute. That makes sense. You wield it for that one. So I'm going to buy design. On it. Um, but then other things like eliminated spiced as I'm trained. Where do they go? They went to Google. Yeah. But they're, but Dave's not there anymore. All of the people we knew they're left up company. Andrew's not there. They're failing is my understanding. So. Officially and our contract with them or repay their money. When they canceled, that should be on here actually. I don't know. It's kind of, it was quite a bit. We canceled. And they did. So and we, and we got out of our contract two quarters early too. So which was really nice of them. Big thing here. Um, I don't, so this kind of is viewed as a Q1 thing that's been like checked off and is not like a ongoing initiative for Q2 other than finishing the ones down there. Uh, yeah. So finishing the ones down there. I mean, we'll say like one of the other slides we talk about. One of the other practices that we initiate kind of from this is like a cost management monthly meeting group. Yeah. Overkill. Group monthly media with me, Ben and then all the back engineers where we go through

**Jeff Whitlock:** data dog and look at all the costs. And then so we will still have the practice of if something is getting out of line, we'll, we will prioritize it and do it. Cool. That's great to hear because I feel like there's. A. Seeming bucket of cost savings that might be 5X this. Which is a deeper analysis on the actual ROI of our COGS as CAC for freemium just deeper understanding of we give away so much for free. And is that actually giving us ROI. Um, we went to full unlimited. You know, we had all these hypotheses around it, but I don't think I have at least seen a like then follow up on, because the reason we didn't go full freemium and fathom did was because we didn't want to like have our costs run out. And then we were like, you know, last year, all right, well, it may be was even earlier than that. We were like, okay, well, like we need to just kind of bite that bullet. But then I don't really have any visibility into what that ended up actually costing us because our big, you know, our biggest expense because what's our like, uh, top's our overall gross margin. Like 60 percent. Yeah. No, it's like 76 percent that includes freemium. The reason why we haven't like prioritized like a really sophisticated analysis. I still think it's a good point is because Ben and I did like a quick and dirty analysis. And basically the truth is it like active users just convert like we don't have a lot of people who are like, cause we do restrict non domain email. Like non - domain, I'll still only get 20 meetings. But the number of people who are on a workspace domain that establish the habit and don't convert when we looked at it was like very small. It didn't feel like it was like, then that bucket isn't as big as I thought. I mean, it's, it's worth revisiting. I think I agree. It's good hygiene. And so I'll, you know, noted for the note, we'll look at it. But it's just, I don't think it's huge. I think it was like 85 percent or something like that of our ongoing cogs are paid users. There's like long tail storage from like turn you to when we started clean. And yeah, so we started deleting old accounts for like new intelligence, you know, AI stuff, new recall costs, new assembly costs, all that sort of stuff. So if we just look at this in terms of like raw numbers to compare against some of these things, you're looking at, uh, let's say it's. So it's 85 percent go to paid. So we'll say 80 20, but so let's also assume it's a little more than 85 percent, I think, but yeah. All right. So you're at. Four, so of, of our COGS, about our cogs are. 20, we'll

**Jeff Whitlock:** say 25 percent of 400K. So you're looking at 100K in clogs a month. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. Then you have. 20K about is to basically our acquisition to free users. And so that's 20K a month. And a lot of these are in like 20K a year type of territory. So there still is. You know, if you can reduce, if the half of that is just ongoing forever, grifting abuse. I don't think it's half. But it may be it's a quarter. That is, you know, 5K a month, which is then, you know, which is, which is in line with coming, which is in line with some of these, be prioritized. Yeah. But I agree with you. We used you to look at it. Yeah. But that, but I just, now that I actually put that into numbers, we're really talking about realistically probably like 60K a year. Yeah. I think that's 300K a year. I think that's probably 60, 50 to 75K here. And I was thinking it might be in the like 300K year territory. So, um, cool. Okay. So anything else on kind of backward looking, we want to do, Mike. Curious if you have any hot on the, I have some questions around funnel. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and like where we're forming well and where we're not. And I think that would probably lead into some of this other stuff. Yeah. Let's get into like, like where, how are we doing like top of funnel to like activation? Where are we performing well? Where. This is probably a good, this is good for topic funnel. So this last quarter, we started FDO efforts again. It's something that we had, uh, Rashid had done a lot of work on then kind of Rashid left. And there was not a clear. Owner of it. We had done a lot of like social media stuff. But we hadn't done any FDO. And so this late last year, we started doing SEO again. Where we hired a firm, I'm working closely with them. And we're doing link building and content creation. Um, and I can send you guys a looker. We have a dashboard created by, let's call it Looker dashboard that has kind of a breakdown on this in much, much more detail if you're interested. The link folks. Yeah. And we review it with them regularly. Um, the sperm is linked love. Okay. And so we are, so if you can see here, like our, uh, they're really good, especially the person we're working with. No, it's 4K. 4K. Yeah. We could up our spend with them, but I wanted to kind of prove it out that this is actually with working. This is just for SEO. So at the ONGO, so we also are doing link flow. We're doing link placements for LLMs too. So you can see here that like all of 2025 are organic search traffic was just going down. Um, the

**Jeff Whitlock:** rest of the world. With the rest of the world. But I think also ours was especially pronounced. At least this is what linked flow and serenide talked about is like that because we hadn't been doing anything really. Like we weren't doing link building. We were doing. Yeah. It's a natural feeding. Yeah. So it was actually. And then you can see now that we're pulling out of that. And so we're getting a lot more, we are, we are organic traffic is now back up to where it was sort of, uh, mid, uh, 2025. I'd love to see on that. Maybe it's in the looker is I know that in terms of volume, um, a huge amount every time I'm done in an analysis on, uh, the highest volume traffic. Through organic, not direct is, you know, it's all in kind of enigma beast, but like, um, actually terrible keywords. Yeah. Really bad. So this is, this is the biggest insider upshot from the link flow work is that 80 percent of our, like Zoom meet teams, which is a very bad place to be. And so that is a deliberately been what we've been working on. They're trying to flip that. She said it should be 80 20 in the other direction. No, totally. Remember when I did that analysis on the reforge class with the graphite Z. And it was like Fathom was like 90 percent branded search. And we were like 20 percent. This didn't look or we've been getting a lot like we've been, we've been trying to be at like simple things like grain note taker, like cause we do grain itself. There was a lot of these long tail grain other terms that we weren't, we were not actually getting top rankings on. So that's what's been part of the things we've been targeting. Um, so like grain MCP, grain note taker grain meeting notes, grain AI, like all these things we're trying to, and so our, so our branded searches are brand term searches have gone up. And then the, the initially when we started, we were going after conversation intelligence terms. I've now shut that down. And now we're doing, still doing note taking clusters, but, but now also doing like agent and meeting agents and meaning for AI. And I can send you the message I sent link flow that kind of summarizes the change in strategy we've been doing. Any paid. Uh, we do branded paid. That's it. Yeah. We don't do any other like paid for a last time we've experimented on page. Uh, it's been a long time. So, so like and I were talking about this yesterday was like, um, I think paid is something we want to look at again and probably Q3 when we have a, we'll talk about a PQL. Like we have a good PQ motion. I think it would make sense. I think our, our self convert ACVs are

**Jeff Whitlock:** still too low that I don't have conviction in it. But if we can bump that up, then I think it makes sense. Yeah. Sure. My thoughts on that later. Yeah. I think it's becoming more top lane. Like we have something to search for that the good point. Yeah. We're kind of talking about this yesterday where it's just like there's, there's a catch up. Right. Where it's like when we ran at three, five years ago, right. It was like what the look at the gap for me. Right. It's like, yeah, you kind of have to come through an organically. It's like not ads just, I mean, we won, we didn't do it very well, but ultimately it was just like, yeah, just not something top of mind yet. So back to this point, if the more focused, if like, and, and it can be like, let's say like you try to focus on that demograph, like a certain demographic, whether it's SMB and market, et cetera, if like the more that's, you know, tuned in on the marketing and language for them, the, you know, I'd imagine it would be convert higher. But got it. I think that's a great point. Uh, so going back to your funnel question, so that's top of funnel is like, we're, we're starting to see some, um, like these are monthly signups from Google, but even if you, if I were to show the chart overall signups, our highest sign up month ever was March. And it's, it's a pass march. Um, yeah, in the history of grain. Um, so that sort of definitely seen some type of funnel traction. It's not like exponential hockey stick yet, but I think there's the bottom right on that top graph. Yeah. There you go. So I guess, how is that higher than what was there before? You know what I'm saying? And the far right on your bottom graph, that's lower than where it was, you know, a year ago. This is just from Google. It's just from all signups. Got it. So, but my point was that you've got, this is initial refer as Google. So you got half the traffic effectively. Yeah. But more resulting and more signups, which is just a higher quality. Yeah. Yeah. Which I call on the right hand side. Yeah. Cool. So it feels like we're getting, you know, our traffic starting to go up again and the quality is higher. So, uh, going back to top, I don't have a slide for this, but just to kind of talk about it. S over the last four weeks activate. And we define activate as they create a meeting. So we've tightened our activation definition. It used to be like if they view media, now it's just if they created meetings. People. I think that's pretty good. Like I think, uh, I don't want to, like we spent a lot of time like, like I said,

**Jeff Whitlock:** we need to ship this one last thing and then learn from that. My guess is that'll go up to 33, 35 percent. So I think we'll see a bump from that. But I think once we've done that, um. I don't think there's a lot of low hanging fruit left. Like we still had it, we have a, like a filter by, is it filtering up? No, it's not filtered. Just all sign ups. Yeah. Interesting to look at. We do have a design for like a, like a simulated meeting. That we could do, uh, it's not simulated in the sense that we talked about before. It's like, it's more of like a UX. Slideshow type thing that Jake designed. That's pretty good. That's the one last thing that like we could do, but I don't, I just don't think the like a ton of, we've spent a lot of work on this. Yeah. So I feel pretty good about that number to be honest. Like one and three activating and creating meetings did pretty tall and historically it's good. Yeah. Exactly. Historically, it's good. And then of the people who activate, um, with what we've definitely seen of our conversion window, it's like now 90 to 120 days is something like we're talking about. Um, so our overall conversion to paid a workspace creators. Is they'll just under 10 percent like eight nine. Um, I think that can be better. I think there's a lot of opportunity to be more efficient at converting. That's also something to be worthwhile to break down from a cohort basis. Yeah. We're seeing like activate 10 percent of that active users. It's closer to 30 percent. Yeah. Okay. So of those that activate 30 percentil. Yes. Correct. Um. So it sounds like top fun. Is the, is the worst performing. I mean, it's what we could push on. I mean, if we're happy with like activation, we're decently happy with conversion. I have two things. I think yes, but I think the other thing is, is the rate of expansion. I think we are, I think if you look at our NRR over a long period of time, it's very positive, but it's very slow. Like if you look at successful products, like Figma or whatever, they expand, they land and then they expand very quickly. Like their expansion is probably like, they probably hit like terminal expansion. I'm using that term people within a month, probably maybe two, three months. Our terminal expansion is probably a year, two years. It's very slow. And so I think if you compress that to three months, like we would have a fundamentally different vision. That's why I kind of, kind of coming back to conversion and activation, I think it's very worthwhile to filter that on a cohort basis. Yeah. Right. Like where our most valuable customers and like what did those life cycles look like? How can we shrink those and get

**Jeff Whitlock:** more of them? This is myopic definition of this is a Q1 definition of like kind of. Prerequisite to Q2. Right. I agree. Yes. So even these conversion numbers are like, cool, convert Jeff just sent me a screenshot, So we're like, that is just an opportunity to get what we actually care about, which is, you know, 2, 500 dollars a month. Or we'll just see them say a thousand dollars. And that isn't happening because we explicitly put it into Q2. We know where the problems are. We know where the opportunities are. We keep running into them. Um, but we wanted to at least get it to the point of adoption and activation such that it is oriented towards this local capture that has been the big boom of the last year plus. And granola's rise. Um, and we just had this very like, you know, confusing world. And it's still, you know, not, I think as a lot as, as unified as it could be. And this thing that hasn't shipped yet is the key to that. For this cohort of like. It's basically the conversion at this stage is basically lead gen. Yeah. I agree with you. Right. It's lead for the thousand dollar plus a month. That's why I say one of my biggest, it's so obvious, but it's like my biggest realization this last quarter is that support. And early conversions are lead gen for how do you actually get a work, a business account. And I think this quarter is this recognition of making it at a, we'll call it go to market side and a product side. The priority to systematically monitor, measure, observe, monitor and move. Like I observe and monitor the same thing. Anyway, measure monitor movement. There you go. Measure monitor movement three M's, but it is. It's, it's, um, measure, monitor and move. And that is a product thing and a good market thing to where there's just so many buying signals that people run into that are that are confusing on that progression into now I have a successful, you know, deployment inside of an organization. So that then, and we'll get to that. And we can come back to the paid stuff, but to the paid point, paid has never made sense when it's about basically converting to that lead gen. Right. And I think that it could in the future if we're better at, then capitalizing the conversion of the 19 dollar leap into the thousand dollar where that's where the, the, the five X opportunity is around just being much more efficient at getting those deployments that, that, that expand and retain and are our best accounts and customers. Yeah. So is that, is that a. Good summary? Yeah. Like in matter made land, we were like literally doing paid ads just to get like freemium signups with, you know, and freaking India. Yeah. We'll go back to a date. Okay. I think,

**Jeff Whitlock:** I think this is the last thing that, um, and kind of looked back that I think is good context. Mike and I have talked a lot about this, but it's good for Jake. The brightest, the most interesting and bright, um, star in the whole like quarter and the signal is our MCP. It's something that, uh. Is still a lot of friction to utilize for a lot of reasons. Like it's, we're still custom connector on, on both ChatGPT and quad. Until just last week we didn't host the docs in a place where AI could read them. And so there's just been a lot of friction in the top priority is to. Change that. But I, but even despite all that priority, we're seeing just like incredible growth. Um, on MCP usage. Um, these are, these are active people using them, uh, active tools on a weekly basis. Um, and so, uh, and it's what people want when we talk to new signups demand like when you're in support that are asking about this. So this is just like one data point of what I wrote up on the board here of like the biggest. Belief that I have now is that like, there was a time, uh, there was a time and this is important. I think there was a time of year ago, maybe even two years ago. Actually when I started rain, we talked about being a system record for meetings. And then I think we collectively thought that's not a thing. Because meetings are not valuable enough. People aren't watching meetings. They have a half life. We've talked about all these things. I don't believe that anymore. I actually think strongly that you need a system of record for meetings, but for agents, not for humans to watch them. And so that's kind of, that's the direction that we want to go like make rain the meeting system record for agents. Um, and, and I think that's where the big, big opportunity is like someone is going to become this. And that's what we want to try to do. Like that's whole company effort is how do we do this. So roughly two X in a month over month. Here. Yeah. It's still small numbers. Right. But like, what do we know that we like that the byproducts of this. Save more like, um, like where people like how people are learning about this. Like are these paid users that are doing this. Yes. Sorry. Only they're like, yeah, I wish I could have my grain meetings in my like, I did this analysis. So something like, uh, 80, 85 percent of active MCP users are exit the users. One, it was seven percent of new users are finding a way to get to the MTP. That needs to change. Like right now, the only way they're doing it is Googling Grain MCP or they see in our help docs or they saw

**Jeff Whitlock:** release note like occasion. We'll put it and release nodes or stock community. People will talk about it or even support a lot of times we'll push people to it, but it's not productized in any way. The only way in the product you can actually like find or get to it is by going to MCP. So it's, it's, um. I personally found it by challenge. Yeah. It's very challenging. So I mean, like I said, we, we just barely hosted our, we used to host the MCP doc on Notion, which you couldn't be found by AI. So that makes sense. So this is our top, but now we host Change Evan last week. Very recently. MMBY started. I like tried it again and it worked. That's why I'm sure that. Yeah. Probably not before the people. I literally it was just last week that I like actually like finally set it up. Cause I'm like, yeah, I did it and it wouldn't work. And I gave up. Yeah. So it's, it's going to docs anymore. They want the agent to read the docs and just do it for them. It couldn't because then I had to like downloaded the notion page and stuff and they could copy of it and then feed it as context so that the new one to do. So I'm going to change. So I would like to change gears from kind of back. We're looking to forward looking. Can I just share something really quick? Um, I think you'll need to plug in. There's a here. And these little rusty stuff correct me if I'm wrong in this analysis, but, um. Building on what you had. So this is event, this is basically tool calls per unique per user. Is that correct? And I'm just trying to look at like relative engagement. Right. So on a weekly basis, you're under a 53 tool calls per user. But it's trending down. So that to me is a signal that while we're increasing the demand of people who despite all odds are finding it and just showing signal that they want it. We're not actually getting as many tool calls per user as we had, which makes sense because you have now a much larger volume of them. I would be, Ryan, crutch man wrong here, but I'd be a little skeptical of overindexing on this. Because I think we're using tools calls more efficiently. Cause we added like a much more efficient fetch meeting tool. Okay. I'm into like impacted by that. Just. Like the like a sessions, um, initialize. And how many, how many times like the, but that also, I think might be impacted by the clients might initiate a session even just if it's enabled on a new chat. So. That might not be as useful. Um, it's hard to say it's, it's hard to find a good. If we had like a. Yeah. So we'll call per session for

**Jeff Whitlock:** something like that. Yeah. We need something normal cleaner. Or we can do that session that have a tool called or. You do totals of the. Over unique survey. Kind of same friend though. Interesting. Yeah. Uh, trying to think there would be any other potential ramp. I mean, you're accelerating growth here too. So maybe there's some lag. Okay. Cause you have these early adopters that have established this thing. Right. So this, this has its own activation and engagement funnel, right? In terms of connecting it and then, um, continuing to use it and then ramping up your usage of it. Right. And so the risk of overindexing on the like volume is to assume then that that is then leading to actual success, which then will compound. Right. Um, and so you get like a double amplifying effect if you are to not, to not only have meaningfully more increase in demand, but then you're also increasing the engagement and retention of that signal to ongoing perpetual usage, which then flows into the rest of the board decker around that being, in my view, the primary driver of not only that position, but also the more B2B sales oriented flow of just helping people teams in particular to get set up. To get that thing that they want, where grain is available at the CLI, at the quad, whatever it is to, as a data input to their larger workflows where grain is just one of many inputs. Right. Um, so anyway, I'll give it back to you. So I want to start by just kind of asking. Moving into the discussion generator. Like what prevents grain right now or what is the biggest gaps from Grain being the meeting system record trading? You kind of just spoke to some of it, but I mean, it's like. Product education. Of what is even possible. People are constantly finding new, amazing things that they can do. And that's just, the energy there. Around. Sorry. Do you mind plug back in? I just want to have to charge you on up. I'll just back to the deck. I just have anxiety that it's not going to capture in Grain. It is. Um. The excuse me. Yeah. For me, that's, that's like. That's, that's, that's number one is this bleeding on a possibility. Of people are discovering and figuring out new incredible workflows that they didn't even, um, know existed. Right. Um, that they didn't even know was possible. And they get so excited about that. And so like, I think this is building on that. I think that's the most under leveraged content opportunity we have. Is we can make up our own, but also our own customers. They're content. Like if we just mind. Support for like people trying to do things and then like went to them and it's like, can we write a case study? And we keep going. But I just like have that idea

**Jeff Whitlock:** and wanted to say like all the like link flowy type of work that's been moving in that world. And then we're just scratching surface. Yeah. Just as opposed to just keywords about those topics when you know what you're looking for. Versus like this. Leading position of possibility, the target audience that we know are our best customers and they look to us from like a challenger sale perspective of like, wow, they know how to do this. They are leading here on this on this. This gap that I feel, I've connected to my Google, my Anthony and my, my Gmail. But man, like all of these damn decisions and discussions and sales calls are just not in my data lake of that's being fed into AI and grain is that solution. I feel like there's progress being made on that. And then it's for what to what end, right? Two to me like use case workflow content is something we got to just do a lot more. Of like whenever I do these types of things. And then I show them to people. They go, I want that. You know, and they, they never want to figure that out on their own because they haven't been thinking about this as data for the last eight years like we do. People are just beginning to realize like how critical it is to have this system of record for the agents, but they. Don't yet have a, I think, I would say the mass market are real clear vision or even been shown that demonstrated possibility of how it can be leveraged and used, not just for one off stuff, but also for recurring agentic flows. We've cropped on this in the past, but it's almost, it's almost like the, as you were talking, I thought like the like category creation type work here, thought leadership stuff. Not almost explicitly. Yeah. Yeah. It's not even just use case. I think that we should do use case case studies, but it's even in one level up of that. Like you need this. Like if you're not, if you don't have a FOMO, like you're not doing this, you're behind. You're not running a modern age. That Jack Dorsey post that I did you end up reading that one block one. Yeah. You guys, I don't know if I, I shared with you guys. Jake shared it with me. Um, yeah, it's this like. This is the way businesses are run now. And if you're not running your business this way, you're getting left behind and you can't run your business this way without the damn data. And in order to get the data, you need to, and this is the next part of my kind of, um. Number one is that education. And number two is that like, it's, it really is this top down mandate. Of turn, like we record everything from leadership and buyers of we report companies.

**Jeff Whitlock:** Are we record our, our meetings? Because we need the data because we can't operate the way we want to operate. And we're going to get left behind if we don't have the data. Yeah. Did you see that? Did you just gave me just an idea? It's like, did you see that the linear issue tracking is dead. Uh - huh. I don't know if that's the right framing, but there's I would like to do like reporting this up again. My worries that your computer goes to sleep and then that microphone. But yes, I'll put it back on. Sorry. You were saying linear. I was just saying, I'm not sure that's the right. It's I'm not sure it's the right framing per se, but it's like there is a to me there feels like there's a, Hey notes are dead type of thing where it's like explicitly is about, uh, what, what you're talking about. It's like, it's not about notes from meetings. It like hits the whole data from the meeting. So agents can do. It's the thought leadership of what's on the board of this thing that honestly, we haven't even had the, the language for until very, very recently, which is. Like. Yeah. AI know they're dead because no one really wanted to go in and look at them anyway. Right. Yeah. This is, I've been heart paying on this. It's like, and that's where I think there is two things that are a competitive advantage today is that people are still, even like the notion team is talking about notes and like notes are, and are even the product itself. Like we saw in Mike about this. It's like very much a single recording experience. Right. And, and it's still the value prop is still around notes and note takers. Right. The opportunity is in the leverage of the data to one do things, whether it's for one meeting or in and of itself. But even more so in the corpus of multiple recordings to get leverage from. Right. And then, and so doing building out. I can't figure out Mike, sorry, but it's recording. I promise you knowledge, but yeah, they know that knowledge base. Right. So it's like, that's how I use it. It's like, I'm like, okay, go pull all this data. And then I go, I go pull all the data and dump it locally. Cause I'm like, I don't trust Grain to run the analysis of like, what were the objections from these meetings, right? Yeah. I was saying go pull me all the ones that are from this database. Right. So here's my, here's my notion database. Go pull all these and dump them locally. Right. And so what I'm getting to is that. Still like the content is around. That note taking this value prop on top. Of note taking being why somebody should use the product, which I just don't. Really agree with. And number

**Jeff Whitlock:** two is, um, the other comparative advantage that we have is that we've been nerding now on how to record and leverage meanings for seven years now. Right. And so it's like we have actually accumulated this experience of like pushing the envelope of like how and what to use meeting data for that, not even like head companies are leveraging yet. Right. Let alone your goes back to the seed deck. It's about meeting data. That's, I think just to build on what you're saying is I think as we've been in search of product market, fed positioning category boom that occurred was around the note taking. And so then we were like, okay. So there was a conversation intelligence boom. We made our baby gong kind of play. Then there's been this AI note taking boom, but now we're finally in a place where it's actually the original hypothesis all along to where we were trying to find these other subcategories of how you can leverage data when you're aligned upon the human to go in and watch the recording and read the notes and process that information. It's a work on work thing. The work on work. It's always been a struggle. And now you're finally in a world where it's all about just enablement of capture workflows even more so than like woody style workflows. It's like capture workflows. And that is my main kind of point number two on this is that it's like. It's getting your team set up into record first world. To explicitly feed the data. And that differentiation gap to where we have an advantage over a notion or even if cloud ads it or whatever is that we are built for teams and enterprises in a way that actually can, um, universally capture and grant access, not just an RUI, but to the AI agents in a way that is like secure. Yes. And, and not just secure in terms of like some hackers coming in and getting it. Secure in terms of the wrong information, the right information going to the right layer on top of that in, in kind of in that comparison is that put it back to this point around like notes and like engage like those companies are fundamentally built upon this point that you use their product as a, as a point of engagement. Right. We can be successful without any point of engagement. Right. We can, we actually are set up. But you still have to have a capture point of engagement that at minimum, like minimum lets you know that it's happening. That's automatic. What I'm saying is back to kind of like what we talked is like. In what that means, that's infrastructure. Right. It's like if we can be infrastructure for this data, then the point of them, we don't have to worry about them associating value of coming to Grain. com and copying their notes or reading the nodes.

**Jeff Whitlock:** Like who cares? Yeah. Right. It's just, can't, are we the best tool to set up the infrastructure to create a system of record. Right? That is most leveraged. Right. Brother, and that doesn't mean that, yeah, Grain has to be the, you know, made place you go to interface with that. Right. It can be heavy to interface is going to be AI agent. AI tools like clawed or shadows or codex or clone code. Yeah. Because the super set of this and it's worth thinking about and talking about is the super set of mean system and record for agents is company system of record for agents. Right. The bright, the company brain, the company AI. Does that make sense? Like that's the, that is the risk to the block thing is that like that is just still a feature in that. Right. In a higher order. Yeah. Like if we were to say like, what's the biggest and like the biggest, most ambitious thing we could be doing would be building, uh, like building out the company AI. The question though is like, are we what I can ask what you, I just want to push on that a little bit. Like you're not saying that you're saying the company, all of the data that the AI will rely on, not core models or are you seeing four models too. Well, I'm saying that that would probably be built by those. Yeah. If I'm going to translate that at least to my, my view, the company AI could mean like serving for a different things. We're thinking about the company system intelligence of the actual work. Being done where humans meet with the world and actually then capture the data that then gets fed into the agents to go do the work. And to create a dynamically updating state model. Of accounts of decisions of product, you know, capabilities. And the interface. That bots just don't, like all of the labs companies have been trained on scraping the internet. They're even increasing a DNA trained on more, you know, company - based knowledge of documents and whatever else, but the massive freaking gap. Of conversations that happen, right? Not just emails exchanged, but conversations happen in the, and the world is just starting to wake up to the importance of that data capture as a equal, um, level of importance to, um. Like company documentation and more directly digital communication. And that's always been the hypothesis and thesis of grain. Is that that is the most under leverage data. A meeting data is the most under leverage data in a company. And now we're finally in a world to where that is like actually being seen and realized by the world because agents can consume that data as opposed to humans going into an interface and reading notes. Just I want to pull this thread for a second, Jake. So if I hear what you're saying, correct,

**Jeff Whitlock:** that you're saying, you're saying that there is. There's a risk that the higher order issue, uh, system of record. With this framing. Yeah. Yeah. And that's why like it's worth. Like, like, uh, thinking about thinking about is like, what is basically, where are we at in the life cycle of this build out of the inevitability of AI being like a core function of most business of enterprise operations. That core, the core, right? That product like is that a product that is bought. Right. You get what I'm saying? Yeah. I guess my opinion with that in this journey, like where are we at in that arc? Cause it seems inevitable that like the end of the day, like every company is going to have an AI. Right. Right. And where are we at in their historical journey? Like remember like when this, like when AI hit, like then like the clarifies of the world, all these partners that we had that like brain was an integration, they build it all out. Yeah. Right. And Grain became a feature like meetings became a few like mini recording became a feature. Like where are we in that journey. And that's why I wonder, right? It's like, okay. And then, and then where do we play in that world? Is it like you have your system of just like, and maybe that's true. Maybe like. That meeting system of record is worthwhile in love itself. And then maybe you have your CRM. But like you're joking, like does the data translate between versus like that, you know, holistic view. And again, I don't even know that that's a product. And, you know, whereas like if you open this up, I'm like, whereas like maybe things they won't do is like, you know, the actual capturing of the data. Right. So would that brain have that feature that is like, you know, installed on every machine to capture, you know, to capture and process and all that, you know, all that jazz, right? So. Yeah, Paul, I think it's good. I think we're going to be doing some more work on our strategy brief, um, to get it to the point where, um, it really can be a guiding document for a long period of time. But I was my thought. This was my tonic insight with you. Like I really want to work to play where you and I are both like, this is the morning and it's not where we're at now. No, no, exactly. It needs, it needs more, um, so the. I think that's as part of that work, we should challenge this. I think I'll just tell you my, no one knows, but I think. It's almost inevitable that Claude or Chachi potino going to be the brain. I think it'd be very surprised if like leaning or one of these other companies meets them at that. The question is. Yeah provider. Yeah. The question

**Jeff Whitlock:** is yeah, there probably will be. The question for me is like is the model that like the brain with a bunch of connectors. That are their own individual system of records or do the, does the AI become so good that they basically become all the ultimate system of records? Because if you think about like, why does this system a record exist? It's because the capture point of the data, right? It's like, why do you have CDRM in the traditional plan because that's how you got customer information from horn build and sales reps putting their data. It's like, what is it's the capture point of where the data entry actually happens linear. It's a system record for project because people take the time to build a project and have the issues and create issues. Like I think the thesis for this type of vision, if it's going to be durable or as long as we need it to be for our goals is that the model is like anthropic is the brain, but it connects to all the system records and doesn't try to disrupt all the stuff that's a record. I have a different, I have a different perspective, which is I don't think it gets centralized in one. I think that they are the model that powers all the possibility, but the actual brain is living in file systems and in GitHub and has bespoke to individual companies and is interoperable and transferable as opposed to being like locked into the clawed brain and that clawed is increasingly, I mean, that could happen. Claude could get to the point where it's just like this. You know, you're using all of our tools. And then we just like systematically pull those into this kind of team project - based structure that's, you know, that's cloud - hosted. But I feel like there has been this move from the cloud to the local. And that, that problem hasn't really been solved, especially for non - engineering teams around like people using cloud code for non - coding projects. And they're sitting on, you know, markdown files on people's computers that, you know, are not using like a GitHub collaboration flow. For collaborating with each other and even with agents. But I think that it is getting that way. So like what that means to me in terms of implication is I'm not so much worried as like, Oh, well, this opportunity is limiting to us just being a connector into Claude. Um, as Claude being the actual hosting of that company intelligence. The hosting of the place, the database of that company intelligence is markdown file sitting on computers or if the cloud hosted, it's in maybe GitHub repos, but I don't think that it, it's, I think it's bespoke. I don't know that the single product company because it's all rooted around like. Local projects. That then contribute to like a larger hole project inherent

**Jeff Whitlock:** like global settings that have that company information and that company level memory. But that is like. This spoke to individual companies. And it may be at some point there's some productivication of all of that. We're just works out of the box and you don't have to really set it up and it just, you know, Hey, I'm, you know, Claude. And I now understand in 35 seconds, everything about your company. Yeah. And you're entire computer and all the computers that everyone at the committee. Yeah. That's interesting. I think let's pause that. I think it's an interesting like. Conversation that we should have a point of view on how the world will evolve because I think over the years it will matter. But I think for this, I'd like to get tactical. Well, this is your meaning. We've got 50 minutes left. Yeah. That's what I'm doing. The only thing I was trying to get at that was like, what is that strategy in that strategic art? Right. Like the decisions we can make today that we think what hold true into the future. Right. And it's like you say things like we can never be too good at. Making it as easy as possible to capture data. We can never be too good at. Giving you the easiest way to get leverage out of your, your, your, your, your meeting data. Right. Um, that doesn't, that's independent of this like, Oh, you know, like large. I don't know exactly how the world played out. Yeah. So Mike, were you still, you're riffing on my question, which I want to come back to on like learn. We see as the biggest gaps of this. And then I'm going to then frame it to kind of smaller chunks to get. Education and possibilities. It is. Um. You were talking role and access setup. And then the last one is kind of control and access and in particular as it relates to teams. And then the teams as a construct, as an entity that is part of the agent's data model, that the agents are trained up and understand that this, that this information lives in these places. Um. Yeah, I think the team's piece is, is pretty important, but it's kind of half of the equation. Cause the two different types of workflows, the poll, right? There's, and I think right now almost everything is pull where it's like, okay, cool. I set up the connector and now I'm explicitly pulling that information. But I was talking to like Jake last night that most of that poll is really just to get the data. It's not like the MCP, grain MCP is to then go and actually like do things on it. It's mostly just to like get it in my like local area. Right. Um, but like that poll ability, which doesn't have to be an MCP. It can be API key. It can be CLI. It

**Jeff Whitlock:** could be a bunch of different ways. They're actually probably way more efficient than MCP. Um, but that is downstream from the data that actually have access to, which right now is as more than ever in Grain's history because of teams that we shipped. And that changed our default. We killed the idea of a shared team workspace. And people are not successfully setting up on teams to then recreate their version of that. And so now when you go into the MCP world, or just we'll say the pull the data into do local projects and local prompts and queries, I only basically have access to my meetings that I attended. So a sauna thought I had was we should go back to having a team as the default thing. So everyone just gets, so it's there. People know what it is. And new people join, they just get put into the team. Then they can change their settings such that if they want to create a second team. So, so we, so it's kind of a reverse, it's reverting a little bit to this like single player first. Cause I think I just think to your point is like, if this is the vision. You're losing a law. You're putting a lot of friction. Even if we design it perfectly, you're still putting a lot of friction between the goal of having a shared repository and sign up. I think the way we bridge that gap is to not just think about it as a, from the self serve world. I think that we can learn a lot and we should be emphasizing even more so than just like say reverting that decision. Really leaning into sales enablement and assistance. From a training perspective to be like, Hey, how do you want this to work. Because they're not going to figure it out on their own. Like our design of teams at an architecture level, I think is like makes sense at a UX level is very, very, very, very confusing. And then at a discovery level, it's basically non - existent. And it's, and it's not in the user experience in the onboarding. And that's what it comes down to. So for Jake's context, like we explicitly said that in Q1, we were not going to redo the, you basically have an epitox as an individual. And then you have an F tux when you opt into a trial, which then gives you the opportunity because you've now have a recording. You get the capture. You have this kind of like basis of, of a retaining engaging model to be like, okay, now I want more. I want to do this at a team level. I want to be able to like manage access to this. And we're still just kind of like stuck in this land of like individual users. And so whether or not we bring to the top of our Q2 priorities list

**Jeff Whitlock:** a, Oh, actually we're going to instead of it being a reverse trial. Because the way it works right now is that I have to. Actually, I'm also getting exposed and I have a 14 day trial at that team business level. While I'm still just trying to even get my own personal workflows up. So that 14 days pass before I even kind of get the point. To where I'm like, okay, now I want to expand this into my team. And then we also are explicitly like there's too much load at that upfront to then teach you about teams and how that works. So therefore back to the separability, it just, this doesn't happen at all. And so we can and should be filling these, you know, gaps around trial expiring with domain emails of like, of leaning in that as a value prop around, Hey, we can actually help you get this benefit of meeting system of record, not just for you, but for your whole team. At a philosophical buy - in from the top down of this date this, we need this data. My team needs this data in order to achieve this outcome. And I don't think people can figure that out on their own self - serve. And I don't, and I question whether or not we should even prioritize that like over prioritize trying to like primarily solve that through self - serve. This quarter at least. Is what I said makes sense. Like it's too complicated. Yeah. It is. I agree. It's very complicated. Like I do think it can be a lot, lot, a lot better, but I think that's why we want to prioritize this. So Jake, the shifting gears, I wanted to give kind of like half the high level question, but it seems like the conversation we've had is rooted in these three. Objectives. So this is product expansion blockers. I'm so sorry. Can I just get one thing out? Yeah. I'm so sorry. Cause then I just want to be fully into this. Yeah. The last thing I'll say is, and it's related to all this, but it's like, I think one of the things we learned the hard way with gong. Was that we're like, why do we beat Gong? Well, we're self - serve and PLG and user friendly. And it's going to virally grow. And there was some truth in that. And I think some of this execution. And I think Fathom probably did that better than we did. Definitely did. But like. What we learned, I've always felt a bit jealous of gong's ability to like do a freaking top - down sale that is a high ACV that is a philosophical buy - in of I need this data as a sales leader in order to do my job. And for us to reach these goals. Yeah. They forced every sales. So then you have forced mandated adoption. Well, it's

**Jeff Whitlock:** because they know exactly who they. So that's kind of my, my point is who is just as important as what. Right? A lot of the problems we're talking about, like become resolved if you're more focused. Right. I guess to finish my thought, it's like, and it is building on what you're saying, but it's like the gong thing was like, so we tried to go after it with baby gong. We've had low ACVs and it's just, you know, whatever that, that thesis didn't really play out. What I'm, why I bring that up as a comparable is because now we're in a place where that is actually true. I think everything that's here is you now have an actual identified buyer. So there's the company, the ICP, the company profile of who it is that is like a good fit for this. And then who inside of that orc needs to be like sold. Like literally sold. Whether that's product marketing and content and kind of, you know, uh, gluing by design type of philosophy around the moving through those stages of the funnel as people are kind of driving with their own journey. But it is, it is this kind of like philosophical buy - in to then mandates. And that's the difference the gong always had is they had a mandate to say we bought this software now to use it. That's what I'm seeing is when you get that tackle person to buy in at that philosophical, we need the data. Then they, they mandate the deployments and you're going through an IT person to be like, okay, cool. Like you just bought 50 licenses. Let's now make sure that you are set up to be able to turn the API connector on for the interclawed because you're using cloud for all 50 of those people as opposed to just hoping that they discover it and figure it out on their own one by one by one. It's a very different. I mean, it's a different, it's a different company DNA. It's a different go - to - market motion that opens up to us. And I don't know that we. Might acute three where we actually like say, okay, cool. Like now we're going to really try to go after that motion. But I think that everything that's up on the board is at least like prerequisite or moving us towards that world in a way that is an opportunity that we've always realized is such a benefit in a world where you have these long adoptions cycles. Instead of like you said, it's a year - long self - serve adoption cycle to where it's truly penetrated. You can actually compress that down to a much shorter timeline. Through an actual high ACV hands - on sales process because you're managing at the top and you're pushing it down. Well said. Jake, you were saying something about who. I agree. I think

**Jeff Whitlock:** this is something that's before getting to this is helpful for me to get some thoughts on is like. The explicit decision is that there's a company type and then there's certain buyers within that company that we want to target rather than a function. But it sounded like you were pushing function or no. Okay. No, just crystal. Our belief in this company wide thing. Yeah. For example, like, um, you know, CEO has a back to this point. Yeah. Um, I mean, even to this, I was just going to bring this up about six months ago. Thomas Lafonte, CEO of his co - to, right? Um, he, he was talking about this, that like, there will be mandates for companies to record all their. And we were talking about the pros and cons of that being available in discovery by like, there's this inevitability. The three personas for enterprises to capture more their meetings, right? And down to all these different functions. Right. And so that's what I don't think it is. I think this right strategic opportunity that's actually representative of the Grain DNA is to go after it the entire, what I'm saying is that that buying experience differentiates between an individual consultant, a five person startup and a thousand person startup and attempt, you know, tens of thousands person company, right? Yeah. So whereas like say back to that point of like Tom was Lafonte says, Hey, everybody here, we're using like we have the mandate and everybody's using Grain. Everything's going to get recorded. A progressive expansion. Right. So it is a, it's a key strategic point. Right. It's like. Who to actually, at the end of the day, like who's our ideal customer, right? Like what in that, in that realm, you know, and it could be, you know. Tack oriented, it can be anything. I mean, it could be anything. Right. And honestly, that's the strength opportunity right now is to focus in on that. Because then all the content marketing and all of everything around that the like, um, trace people. Right? Like there is an opportunity in that and building out that system of record conversations and like phase people or, you know, commercial construction. Right. So like that's what I'm getting, like that's my point is like being specific there versus this we're going to serve this in really large spectrum, which is possible. It just makes it more challenging, especially when you're getting opinionated around how you leverage the data. So it's, it's that is that what is that product experience and like that we're pushing for. And how do those, those merge around like who actually we're trying to serve. Okay. So the three buckets, uh, three, three objectives. One is product expansion blockers. These are the things you're talking about with like no teams F talks basically. And also teams being four of these are poor teams. So and there's more here, but I'm just

**Jeff Whitlock:** going to introduce them that I would like to kind of like be generative on some of these. The second one is PQL diff motion. That's what we're talking about. Like how do we use, you know, we're seeing that we're more signups than ever. How do we treat those as leads and actually harvest them effectively instead of only relying on hand raisers, which is what we've done historically. And then the third is agent, I'm just calling aging infrastructure. To be a little bit more broad than how I wrote in the decks. But basically, how do we continue to push grain to be this record for meetings so that the data is there, um, when I'm doing my work with my agent that the agent can have easy access, can have the right context. It's correctly enriched, that kind of stuff. So how do you take ideas on any of these, but we can start with number one. Like can you change that to capture expansion blockers? Cause that's fundamentally what it is. Yeah. That's a good point. Cause product can be so many of these different things. And just to make it a little bit more specific. So we really know what problem we're solving. It comes down to kind of like capture expansion blockers. And then to add to that list, like I've got, um, but we're talking about net new people report by capturing. Yeah. It basically getting more people in the organization to get the habit of exactly. It's the, it's the, okay. So I am a I bought into the philosophy, record everything. There is no way. Like. There is no way for me in grain. So number one, like understand how these teams are being set up. Like, like this is an example of RAM who is one of my clients that is, that is philosophically bought it in the CEO is like, this is what we're doing now. It's a mandate. That mandate happened. Right. Cool. So, so we're actually downstream a little bit from the thing that we need to get even better at in our positioning and sales motion. Cool. That actually happened here, but now we're running into these blockers. No one's in any teams. There's this like one team I made for like AI stuff. If I'm being honest, I don't even really like no. I don't know how, I don't know what teams to put into what people and what they want fully. So then I as an admin can't even like as someone who gets grain. Don't even know what teams to put people into. And so then it just doesn't happen. Like if we looked at the product analytics of like definition of what a successful setup from a team's perspective looks like it's very, very few. And it's, and that is not been tough. There's almost zero that not been touched by cells. Yeah. And I think that that's, I think that's

**Jeff Whitlock:** right. And even within the sales world, this guy would know how, what the playbook is to actually ask the right questions to figure out what those structures are around getting people into the right teams. Like what's this size scare? I mean, this is, I mean, and the thing here. Look at all these pending members. So these are people who have, so the IT guy at the mandate went and invited everybody. Right. And then IT guy literally logged in as everyone that has signed up for grain. And then did the AMCP connector for Grain. And that is the correlation with, with actual usage of grain and value of grain. But it's such a, it's so non - PLG. But I don't really see another way around it other than like actually leaning into that motion. To where it's like, you joined the media share screen. Um, yeah, so your total count of people in the 300 300. Okay. So they have an HR system. Sorry. 10. Maybe it's the other company that has three, you know, it's like they probably have some HR system that dictate Susan watch team. They do, they have, and so I've got a great relationship with, with, with, with Frank, their IT guy. And I just, I honestly never realized until I was embedded in their company how freaking critical that IT guy is. Super critical. Yeah. Super critical. And he is not going to figure this out on his own. And he hasn't. And I have, could have and should spend much more cycles on figuring this out with him. Um, which we will do. And we move them over to like a paid plan. Cause I've been focusing on just trying to get like free, free, free, just get it expanding and adopting just to kind of observe and learn off of here. I would love to do that with you, by the way. It would be very helpful. This is what I said last night about we going through these accounts. We'll look at RB2 and see what's happening. Cause Arbor only has maybe eight people. Is that mandate hasn't yet been threat across this mandate went through IT and email went out. So this is what we're doing now. And the actual expansion and adoption of the team onto that buying point has, it's just, it's a struggle. It's a struggle. And that two levels of the team's piece, but even more so look at all these pending members. I can't join the meeting cause you made it on your own. It's not on the calendar invite. And I texted you. Okay. Cause the more we can leverage what has already been like that's one of the core problems I think from a like initially probably around, I mean, I'd assume is that like. In the concept that we're trying to say you got to go and do these and turn these knobs and start these, these

**Jeff Whitlock:** objects. Is friction into what we're really trying to do, you know. Recording in progress. So if teams are really important, then it's like, then we should be trying to find the simplest way of like those being initialized. Than somebody having to manually. Cause like, it's like, okay, now like, Oh, I actually have this HR system, but like now I have to every time I add somebody go update them and ingrain. Right. So. Yeah, we could complain about it. A lot of our large customers. There's also just riffing is like, there's also probably. The ability to be smart, even if we can't integrate with like a HR system through SCIM. Like. We could probably guess you're having these kind of meetings here on this team because we have meeting type detection. Yeah. So you just be like, Hey, this looks like the teams you should be on. So RAM is a microcosm has 21 days left in this trial. I want to deeply collaborate with you. I said, did you get my messages last night? Yeah. Yeah. So arbor is already ready to buy it at a smaller level because they haven't done the like company on mandate yet. These guys have done it. And it's easy to do it when it's free. And then. I shared this with Jeff and it's the other company, but like the second that their trial expired, I got three texts from three different people being like, ah. I need this. Because then they, they, they, they lost access to this kind of world where everything was shared. And they were, and I guess maybe I don't know exactly what the experience is to the downgrade to a free seat when you're not on it, but their perception was like, I lost access to grain. Right. Um, but yeah, this is a like perfect like case study. Of our ability to, um. Move this into a paid on somebody who's been in this kind of like perpetual extension world until you reach a point of actual embedding and buy in and usage that make sure that that's going to be like a great account. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Which is the vast majority of our revenue is those types of customers. Those types of people make that you mentioned. How are they leveraging. Grain right now they're leveraging grain as one of many connectors through clots. So I'm doing like sales and I'm doing like AI enablement. I have, I literally have one on Thursday. So I have a training on Thursday, which is an AI committee week three. So as a consultant, I'm just teaching them about how to like use AI tools generally, mostly cowork. Moving from the world of like chat to cowork and project based. And then it's in the context of those projects where they want to enrich that with the conversational data. Right. And, and my truth is, is that I still, I don't know

**Jeff Whitlock:** that they have really reached yet that point of value to where grain is being leveraged at the same level as like their O365 connections. Right. And I as an admin don't have the ability to really like just, just look at this. Like I don't have access to any meetings that I'm not explicitly invited to. Because that would be through teams and we haven't set up teams. And there isn't a like default works. I know what you have no way to. Know what people are, what their settings are. If they're capturing. No way to know whether settings are really confusing. I like when I signed up, I'm like. Hands here. Like, and I'm like, there's random meetings that I see and I don't see. And I was like, I don't like it. Because it like it isn't. I don't understand that hierarchy. Like that shared workspace means nothing to me because I'm like, I don't know. Like some things get added here and something's still. You know? Yeah. There's not a, there's not a coherent mental model that then maps to me, even as the, you know, as working at grain, like to, to know how to like, they make them success in this model. So we optimized for, if I'm to be like overly prescriptive, it feels like when we did teams, we optimized our defaults to be. Reduced the nuclear radioactive problem set. That was in many ways actually a feature. Because they even realized they had the problem. So then we just basically prevented them from every even getting into the world to have the problem. We're there even to discover the solution, the need for the solution. And they're just kind of like wondering like there isn't really a like team level, you know, sharing unless it gets set up and no one's setting it up. So Grain, even when it's deployed is effectively just like, Hey, you have a license to use grain by yourself. And like you get access to the meetings you're explicitly invited to. Which is still enough value that people, you know, value it. Missing thing is meetings that I don't, I was not part of or were not shared with me. There's no way for me to get that workspace organizational level. Yeah. So therefore you don't have that at this like block company level intelligence. It's not being fed in. So let's talk about like, unless you have it, sorry, one quick thing, unless you have an API like workspace level API key, right, then I can access the meetings that I don't see in here, but I wouldn't even know what the meetings there are. And just most of our target audience, like Ram, for example, doesn't even know to go look there. Sorry you were saying. Yeah. Well, it's just like in practice. And I'm trying to like understand why I'm working on a feature. Right. Um, how do I get access to

**Jeff Whitlock:** CS conversations. And in sales calls and all that type of stuff. Right. Um. How that, you know, how does that get an initialized and all that? You know, and the broader converse point around this is like, back to like why, I guess it's like, why is everything not glove? Right. Yeah. Or, or is it like. You know, it's like obviously some of that stuff sensitive, but I actually, I also think there's this, this trend towards that becoming less and less of a problem. Because I think it is a huge problem. Like the world's not quite ready for it. It's not even that. It's legit. It's legit issues like you have, you have a meeting with a venture capital. Like we had, for example, someone had a meeting with a coach. The coach, it was the next one party. It got sent to the team. He was talking about like incredibly sensitive stuff. Like who should he fire. It got out like, and then the minute that happens, you completely, it's like, it really is radioactive. People hate grain at that point. Like they're like, I want to rip that out. I was talking to my brother - in - law who works at a local startup stage. Some executives, right? Exactly. Yeah. Who works at cinch? And he's like, we really need to use grain. And I'm trying to push it. But the CTO had a meeting get leaked to the workspace and he has a bitter taste in mount back. Right. That's literally what he said to me. So I'm not like it's a decision wasn't baseless. It has nobody that didn't finish the I just want to be clear that it's, it's moving forward, not moving back. Yeah. Yeah. And like, and smart designs, better decisions, better education. FAIM. There's a configuration of decisions. We need to make that I think can solve the problem without. The problems where it's on. So did you see that thing that Brexit did yesterday where they, they're using, um, LLMs, do you, for security to understand what, um, kind of this buffer around like cookies and sessions and stuff like that. But anyways, you can either, you could like announce it by this is sensitive data. Right. Like that would be very easy. Data filter. Yes. Like this is like weird talking about stuff here, you know, like that is totally in the realm of possibility like that we could say we could run that, that analysis, be like, we should not send this to, but public workspace. And then the other like more fixed criteria of like frankly, like it's any one - on - one CTO meeting should not be shared to our workspace or what all that type of stuff. So I don't know. I think it's tricky. You're saying you're saying like, but I like, I wrote that down because I think it's a good provocation is like meeting level rules rather

**Jeff Whitlock:** than personal level rules. Or meeting level heuristics or filters. I mean, the other way of solving this without say, say we can never find this data source that helps us establish teams. Is that maybe it isn't even teams. Maybe it's just understanding what that meaning is and how it relates to all these other meetings. Um, and whether sensitivity score and how it like, how it can get connected to the other, Oh, like we know that this is a reoccurring, like one, the meeting data. This is a recurring standup. This is an engineer, you know, we're talking about engineering stuff. Like, you know, I love it. Um, can we move to this. I want more thoughts about that one, which is two thoughts. One is what's standing out to me is Jake talks is that team really making teams sing and, and, and pushing through and finishing the work might not even actually be the best solution to the problem at word identifying. It could be this more heuristic based path. It doesn't mean you get rid of teams. It means that they actually solve kind of two different problems. The truth is that the team doesn't even fully solve this problem. Because it limits to what you end up having in as like an executive team. So you limit to the smallest scope of people that can get access to all of the information. And when it's a CEO oftentimes that's just them. Right. Right. And ideally it's transparency at the executive level. Right. And so that's the true team that I've seen in one is the only team that I know how to make sense of is an executive team. And I explicitly say, still like, are you, who is the group of people that you are fine having access to all of your meetings? And it's like, yeah, it's this group of five people. Cool. Let's make a team for that. We'll call it executive team. Is the only team ultimately that actually has that sharing and that benefit across the media in multiple teams? But then there's also, but, but, but it's very, very confusing about how that works. We're more so to set that up. Yeah. How to set it up. Yeah. And it sounds bad. But then the other thing too, to where it's like, okay, cool. I'm the CEO and I very much limited, but as the CEO, I want access to everything. Because there's not sensitive meetings happening and nothing sensitive really to me because, you know, like I need to make decisions off of this. And that's just not happening because those sub teams aren't getting set up. So the thought on this, the number one was teams might not even be the best solution to this. There could be better solutions. But as if that as far as teams go, the idea of suggested teams based on the like, you know, uh, contextual information we have

**Jeff Whitlock:** of calendar events and recurring people that are always in meetings based on the topics of those meetings based on the content of those meetings when they do get captured that then goes in to the idea of being like, Oh, it looks like these people are on this team. Like Fathom has out of the box suggested just default teams that makes it, it's actually just that one tiny little thing is a huge benefit to be like, Oh, okay, cool. Like all my sales people go in the sale team. We don't even pre - populate that list. Yeah. We just are still like, you got to come up with a completely from scratch. We didn't have suggestions around like who should go out and to what teams. And so you could have just like a really simple way of doing that, which we should do tomorrow. And then there's a more like sophisticated way of doing that, which is just kind of using some intelligence around what we've understood, which probably leans into a bit of what Jake was saying around some of these sensitivity signals, but even more so, it's like, it's like an embeddings model of like topic clusters. That map to, you know, sharing permissions. I don't know if that's model is the right way, but I just think of it as like, you know. So I think. Um, I, what I'm hearing is the biggest thematic. Thematically I wrote down a lot of the ideas, but the biggest blocker is having is essentially giving the right people access to the right meetings with this little friction as possible. In the context of a top down hierarchy, cause that's your buyer. Yeah. From the buyer. Yeah. Not just to get making sure that the buyer gets what they've, what they philosophically want, which is, which is a. Sensitivity ultimately based hierarchy of information that they get access to all of it from the top. And then people are in the right levels below that are basically grouped into their own little individual problems. And right now we don't have a good solution. Yeah. It's kind of like, but if somebody has an HRIS system already, that's an easy. Yeah. That's a new D win. It's an easy win. Because it's art and it will always stay updated because every time somebody changes roles or gets fired, et cetera. Because they are automatically, you have six. And then, then, so I just think it's, it's, it's probably like the ideal scenario, it would be somebody already has that populated in some database. Right. Then you take this extra layer of applying an understanding the context of meetings and meeting types. Right. You know, leveraging AI, right? This is a title's talking points. Right. It's like even one - on - one's probably by default shouldn't be even exposed to the CEO, you know, or maybe it is, you know, it's like those types of things

**Jeff Whitlock:** inside of even those teams themselves. Um, they shouldn't be shared with the team, that's for sure. That's a directional graph, right? Like is one way to think about it is you've got like sales, whatever. Um, you've got like, I don't know whenever they are teens. Um, research. Yeah. Put it research product. I don't know. Right. UPD. But it's this recognition that the buyer wants the data to flow up without their date. Well, they also want to be capturing without their data flowing down. And then your point around is like HRSs and stuff that have that. Hierarchy built in for us to like know how to set it up. Well, it honestly actually, here's the radioactiveness is not. Isolation of teams. Like at the end of the day, like that sales call you're having is probably not like that radioactive to somebody in engineering. It's, it's radioactive conversations between executive teams, coaches one - on - ones, those types of conversations. The other thing too is that when you're down at that team's level, so now I'm on the sales team and I'm having a one - on - one. Well, if it's with the buyer, then it is kind of counted for here. But if there's middle management layers, right? So you have then you have another directional graph inside of those teams around the team manager and owner that if they're like a participant in it, and it's like a one - on - one, well, that shouldn't then go because we're both part of that team. And then now that goes into the, in my auto record settings, we'd go put it into the sales team. Which is not what I actually want. So that same sensitivity thing happens inside of the sub bubbles. Yes. Yeah. I don't even know that the sub bubbles matter that much. Yeah. I don't, you don't, you guys know more than I do, but I think if, if I'm hearing anything, the honest truth is that teams were solving two problems. And I don't think it's all very either on that well. Well, it's all one well, the cycle and poorly. And the first one doesn't matter anymore was because it was for sales teams in the coaching use cases. That self managers wanted a bucket of meetings that I can go through and easily skin and review. So that was a huge part of the thinking at that time, but that's no longer relevant at all. Which it still should be tagged. Like at the end of the day, tax is that the agent can go and get the sales to go get the voice of the customer for whatever longitudinal analysis. And I'm doing well in the drain day to be part of that work. The workflow history, again, I just, this is not what we're doing, but like in the baby gong days, it's like sales managers wanted to like pull off the thing

**Jeff Whitlock:** and open the calls and watch a little bit and leave comment. Like it's just a different. And they should be able to do that in the future. And then even more easily through agent like agentic workflow. Right. Exactly. Yeah. But just not in the UI. Yeah. And I think what you're alluding to is was that plus some level of sensitivity for those two. Yeah. Exactly. And but that's the reason why a lot like that thought process of like being able to quickly click and see a bucket of calls in the UI is like the reason, but again, like I just don't think that matters. You know what I mean? It's like, and the better way to solve it. But anyway, this is great. Uh, let's talk about, I think, I think the lot of good ideas, a lot of stuff for us to work with and come back next week, next week on the plan to start on what I do, one just quick, like tangible example here. Yeah. So this is an analysis I did for like the digital menus company. Um, where my goal with ultimate I took, uh, Garrett's like messaging and positioning framework. Right. I've never seen DS code in light mode. But I changed the theme, I guess. Um, actually, I think it's dynamic today versus night. So customers, messaging, acquisition. I ended up producing these pretty incredible outputs that they were like over the moon about. And then now has been this like really like massive ability to align the team around their ICP. And I, there's a shit ton of data in internal meetings and customer meetings. And I didn't have the access that I wanted to in the sales meetings because we didn't properly set up the sales team. And so all I really had was basically that meetings that I belonged to. And so that this is the end, uh, these are like the end outputs, right? Like buyer journey research really, really good shit ended up actually being pretty damn accurate to what we had because we're then surfacing all that same information in executive meetings, in meetings about Taco Bell that I'm a part of. Right. That at least I have access to cause those calendar invited to it. Right. But no one of the meetings that have that data, even the most important ones, like the actual meetings with Taco Bell ended up actually being in this analysis. But this is the key thing. I ran a separate process based on the information that I had teaching Claude what MCP tools were available or like how to use those tools and how to basically like what information. To search for in the database using the MCP to get out the information that I was looking for to achieve my project - based goal. So then this becomes a really incredible input. To that output that I did the same thing for Slack as

**Jeff Whitlock:** well. I did like Slack ICP research. And so it wasn't just like, oh, here's all the freaking data. It was like, go find this specific set of data about these types of customers to then feed into this broader project - based task that I am doing. And I just think that like the odds of someone figuring out how to do that on their own or next to zero, but it's representative of the value that people want. We got 50 minutes left. I do want to get input on these other two buckets. So the second one is PQL cells with this motions. Fail flash assist motion. Um. The idea here is again, while we are addressing, you know, these issues of like the product complexity and trying to simplify it and fix it. We want to. Learn and jumpstart that expansion. By treating signups as a lead source. So that's what this bucket is. I wrote down some things we were talking about like a signal around trying to expire it. I think the big thing here is like identifying the signals and then the finding the right playbooks for each signal. It's like which the channel reach out. Like what channels and which circumstances. And right now the only channel we've really done much has been email, um, but I think when I've talked about we want to try to expand that to calls text and product messaging. With the right with the relevant timely helpful message that is this broader message we're talking about, which is Hey, you know, this is, this is you signed up for Grain. So I assume this is your goal. Right. Or at least maybe you didn't even think about this being a goal. But like, I think everybody wants that as the goal. There are at least aware of like what's possible now. And. When you're outreaching, it's not just with the generic like, Hey, Hey, let me help you buy our product. It's, Hey, let me help you achieve this outcome. Through our product. And these are the blockers that I've helped other people with and I can help you with. It looks like you're running into this blocker. Here's, here's, I hear something I can open solution. We'll extend your trial. You know, I would love to extend your trial if you jump on it on a call with me so that we can solve this problem together and help you get your goal. And I think, I think, Ben, one of the big changes here is for us to work together to update the sales story. Like I think we, I think we've kind of updated a little bit, but I still think a lot of times we're probably still selling like baby gong slash tur valence software. Nope taking so the people go in and read the notes. Yeah. And we need to update like the story to be about this and like really

**Jeff Whitlock:** challenge yourself. I like teach them like with grain back to use case of like, this is what you can do and have them like just describe it. So we had a meeting book yesterday in the big conference room. And this guy was like, I'm so sorry. I should have put this rim. I know that you're in it. But like, can I have the room. And we were like, yeah, yeah, totally. So we're fine. We've found another room. But then he's like, so what do you do? And then Jeff tried this pitch. He instantly got it. Got it immediately. Like what we should use you. That's amazing. Yeah. I totally want that. Yeah. And it's not what we pitch. This is profile. Up. CEO. CEO. CEO. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. CEO. Exactly. Agent infrastructure. So the most important thing here that is currently in progress is getting, being a first class and connector in both chat and anthropic and then bringing that into the first time experience, uh, we talked about at the beginning. But that to me is huge. Another one that, uh, is in the debt, but I think I'd be curious for thoughts on is enrichment is like some, we've done since we, you and I talked, we've done a lot on enrichment. I don't know if you've seen that with Denmark down transcripts. I'm trying to make it better. One of, I think one of like the things, I think we're still missing is voice IDs because I think some of the best enrichment you do is like this meeting, for example, the notes are going to be. Fine, not great because this brain doesn't know who's talking. But if we have voice IDs, we can know what I said and what Mike said. And I think it dramatically improves the quality of analysis. Yeah. When I do this type of work is very, it's paincy obvious when it gets confused about who said what. Is it then misprescribes and it's like, Oh, so - and - so said this. And it's like, no, I said that. And I go in and update the transcripts, which is still not the best experience, right? Like after that. And that's what I'm saying is living on the edge. It's like literally have to redo your data pull flow after it's been re - encoded. And that, yeah. So at some point we'll talk about like. A higher order idea around this, around graphs. Right. It's like what we're, I don't even know that that's the terminal form that this should actually be taking is an improved markdown file. It's static. Ultimately the overarching point around team this whole team's and everything is like, and how we could progressively build these. And how you could really over time build out that entire corpus of data that might actually require manual implementation is by just understanding how all these edges connect. And basically identifying like identifying like

**Jeff Whitlock:** entities. And that being a living experience, right? Where it's like. Down to ideas down to objections, right? Like that is a available today that we could do like do it. It would just, it's be challenging. Right. But like, you're saying basically as you have meeting, brain identifies identities. Like here's a company. Here's a person. Here's a concept even and then add you have meetings. It builds out the understanding of the CRM. Yes. It becomes a automatic PMS. It becomes a bunch of these different things that get managed. I think that's something that's necessary also for the buyer to understand that what they are mandating is getting followed through because they're able to show that knowledge. It's like, Oh yeah. Like, Hey, look, we're getting our sales meetings, but wire marketing meetings not getting included or why are EPD meetings. And so like that's something I think Gong did really well is like they gave that, you know, CRO or CEO, whoever a view to be like, Hey, people are recording meetings, but they're not coaching on meetings. And like, I think that's something we still miss is like selling, but they're not selling with the updated messaging position. Exactly. Yeah. And so you need a way for that fire to feel a sense of like, not just seeing the meetings in there, but like one of my, what there's beyond just a poll, like push back to them like, yeah, that's happening. And it's happening really well or it's not happening. You need to go like, ensure that marketing is, you know, including their recordings in your knowledge. A lot of this goes back to manual. Like that's like interface just for people to like theoretically be able to sell. We want to sell as light all the time. Do you want to sell automatic intelligence? We want to, we literally are what we're describing is specialized agents to build this knowledge graph. Like that it's, that's actually productized. Yeah. That's what the product. And that's why I think ask elephant is going after the wrong, like I think workflows are dumb. I agree with you. Workflows are dumb. Agents in a workflows are dead. Works like to rephrame it. I think workflows was the shit. Like nine months ago, nine months ago. That I think that they're dead, they're dying. No, you need a something living. You need real intelligence. As an agent where it's like a lot of us remember our Adrian conversation when we're in Lugin and Gal. He was describing. He's just like, it is so frustrating to me. How much rain knows about me, my customers, my projects. And it doesn't do any cross - like intelligence, like interpolation. It doesn't get smarter. It doesn't do that. He was even specifically talking about it as like using that as an input to make the notes more relevant and contextually aware, which is, you know, a sub problem. Yeah. But it's

**Jeff Whitlock:** this like broader graph of. Can I rip on this in like a productized way and you get it's just to see if like we're on a similar concept here. It's like I create an agent. Like imagine you had like an agent's tab in the product. You said create agent, you name it, you give it. It's like, what do you want this agent steal given instructions? Give it some instructions. And then based, so let's call it, this is my coaching agent or whatever. And then you're like, you quoted some tech, almost like a skill from text. And then you say, okay, run on all my, I mean, run, just run. And so then basically that agent then starts to build like every single meeting and analyzes the meeting through that. Whatever the context of the meeting. And then it, and then the question is like, what does it do? Does it like save like a markdown file? Does it like talk to you in Slack whenever the update or it has done some work? Like that's what I'm a little fuzzy on, but just, yeah, just thoughts. I only think, even think, cause I feel like back to what is the agent do, the doing agent. It is what it's doing is, is what the outing of the system that then is organized and available and structured and secure and sanitized in a way that it makes the post work that you want to do like enriched at the right level, like that problem I was describing Vistifier. It was just the agent is what solves that problem of making sure that I have the data that I otherwise I'm going, well, in the interface and in the, and in the MCP, I only have access to the meetings that I have access to. And, but, but the agent can actually solve more of that problem around like the access, but also that like enrichment and pattern recognition that becomes this state management of knowledge that then is the input into whatever is you want to do in quad or and throughout thick or codex or sorry. You don't even create that. Grain just does it. It just does it. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. That's the productized version of like that's why we like we need to think the best way of thinking about grain in the future of Grain is that I don't do in like, I don't go and create things. Right. Like I go and it like comes to me and I interface with it as an agent. Right. Like where and how. Maybe through cloud, maybe through grain, right? But it's like those are, it's the, it's like proactively understanding those things and doing these things. I think that having this like back and forth. And that's where it's like, maybe it can't, like one of the ideas I had was like, if you just stripped it all down, you know,

**Jeff Whitlock:** it's like say like Grain was just like this, this tool that captured mating data enriched it like and built out this graph. And then we would have a tool on the CLI that would create automations in COD code. Um, to run and like proactively create these automations, right? Or maybe even at least the playbook, right? Um, that's like, okay, cool. Like you, you get all these things automatically from grain. Right. And that's probably that now piece is like we become opinionated and like you install these different plugins, but you're not like, I want like creating this thing is like, you know, it's like you, you start from something that is like, yeah. I think the thing that I think the thing that I, as I've been thinking along these lines, like the limitation still with clawed and these where people actually are is that they're all, uh, prompt initiated. Right. It's like we can't bring our things inside of quad. You know what I mean? Like I can open clan to get a message from Grain that says, your grain agent did this. So there's, they have the user triggered from the cloud client. And I think that's the limitation. Like I don't have a vision to get around. I think it's probable that they end up opening that. I think so. Yes. So you're basically thinking like run the agents, build the knowledge graph, expose them, expose the tools to get the contact through the MCP, maybe local, um, so that whenever we can initiate, then you're, yeah, the bet would be, do we think that I guess at the end of the day is like, is that the, I still don't even know that this is the right form factor cowork, but at the end of the day, one of these, you know, these foundational models having some harness that works with normies, right? And then the questions don't work. I don't know that story. I don't even know that it's local. Right. I do know, I do believe that it being wild. I know it's local right now. Yeah. I know it's local right now. I don't know that the, the, the terminal state is local. Right. I do believe that it's very much file based. Um, or end date, just data - based. And like, but my provocation is whatever that harness might be for normies. Do we believe that that foundational model will have an API to create automations and interfaces through that. And I would bet yes. That there would be an API to create those types of things. So. I like this like data sanitation and enrichment agent that is just productized. I like this. As opposed to like going set up these things, it's just like, that's just, it's just smart enough. Like this is a little cliche, but I literally watched her with Joaquin Phoenix on the flight up here. Yeah. Um, while I was reading

**Jeff Whitlock:** the board deck, it was like going in the background, reading the board deck. And beautiful mind. What was interesting about her is there's so much irony of where we're actually at now, but then there's so much that was right. But the specific thing I'm bringing up is that that that interface experience he initially had with scarla Johansson, the OS that he fell in love with. It was like, hi, I already know everything about you. You know, it's just like, hi, like, so the problem we run into is that this order of operations around capture. Where if you're selling this thing, well, the, unless you're importing from some other place because you weren't on grain. So the version of this value prop to like upsell or existing customers where they already have all this data and now we're like, Hey, there's grain business plus plus. Right. Where it's like, or, or this is just now how the business plan is good. Because we, we have all of that information. It's been sanitizing. We know. And these are the ways that we can be helpful. And it just, I didn't have to set it up to know. Right. Right. It just does know. Yeah. Um, the way I've expressed this to Mike is like the future I see. Is, you know, like in like some of those movies where they have a board meeting or it's like that big executive meeting. It's a bank or hedge fund or whatever. And then they have like, or lawyers. And then there's the board reading table. And then the all the chairs around them or like government, et cetera, right? And then, you know, like somebody comes in and hands the paper there and they're like, Hey, like, you know, the chief of staff, a whole team behind you. Right. The idea is like, why can't everybody have that team behind that? Right. That it's like proactively doing all these things. And so you as the person use your judgment during these conversations. And then that can happen. And I mean, that could even happen live. Right. Like that's the dream is that like, like we have that whole corpus of data that connects with all of the other work we're doing. And you have this brain and then live during the call, like we could say, Hey, like, you know, render, you know, in this way or like what's the, what's conversion at over the last 12 months. And right. It's like that stuff just comes in. So that's like, just want to like be able to ask the question. And then it's like, but Grain is just one of the data. And that's where I run into some issues here is that it's like grain is a data input into the broader thing that they actually want. It's not really the data input. This is what this is what Jake was saying about stripes. That's what I, that's

**Jeff Whitlock:** what I heard his comment about the brain. It's like the, the higher level aggregator of the systems of record. Yes. But I mean, and we're not even there yet. Like it's still like agents are still like still pretty like. I think we need to win this. A great. Have a right to even have that conversation. I agree. Cause I feel like that would be just like another one of these pivot traps we run into. Yeah. Um, the point I'm getting at though is that like, it's like the way I it's like as that. Work is proactive like the work is proactive. Yeah. That's what I'm getting at. Right. You're pushing, which I love. It's great. It's super useful. Like your push is. Meeting transcripts enriched with context and bigger data. It's great. But that's only a step on the way to the what's going to be the bigger future of entity - based knowledge graphs. Yes. Which is proactive. Yeah. Doesn't but isn't the end destination. It is just, it is proactive and it's enrichment and capability and availability with an enrichment theme, but it's pushing in further, which I really like because it's still not like we're still relying. I feel like the thing that I feel very strongly about is people are using cloth and ChatGPT. And we are a system of record to give data and context for a spot, not that we're trying to supplant or take away the engagement. You know what I mean? That just seems like an uphill battle will never go in. Yes. And so if Grain can be initialized where these data sets for the enrichment. Are already baked into the company, right? So say. We're like mostly there then. Right. We're not trying to create new entities. Like, like that, but that's what, I mean, again, I'm not using it in the context of a CRM today, but like we should be thinking it's the ideal customer. Who is the ideal customer profile and like build that next version of this for them with these, some like these assumptions, right? Otherwise he became really challenging, right? Whereas like you're going to have to infer some like relationships and all those types of things, which is totally possible. But it's like way better if it can just be some like there's some others like sources of truth that we can, we can leverage. Right? Then we can know that's a stealth call. We can like all those types of things. Right. Um, and then that gets built out over time, you know, progressively built out. And to this other layer of data around, you know. What are the ideas concepts projects that like this company's working on, right? It's possible today for the CEO to have the Batman view, right? Of like every like to know if they have the data ingrain and everything is properly, like if they have the data and the transcripts are

**Jeff Whitlock:** properly attributed and they know who those people are, they could say what's going on in my company today. Like what work. Yeah. Well, workout. Yeah. Yeah. What are what's going on, right? And then the next then in conjunction of like, that's what I'm getting is like that customer and then how they associate with these other tools. Right. And like that being this graph that doesn't have to just be meeting data. Yeah. Okay. We're overtime. Michael, we got to stop here in a couple minutes. So you and I can get to. Yeah. Um. The. All right. So workflow here is interviews happening. She used a circle back. Um, research flow here that's contributing to a larger wiki. So the. Interviews and the transcripts become the primary trigger point and data that then goes enriched as a subset of knowledge based docs. Right. So you complete one interview. And it doesn't just go and add it to the energy log. It also goes and updates the broader knowledge graph around these, you know, defined things that we want to understand, these themes. For example, like architecture and scale that is being perpetually updated at a wiki level as you add more inputs of the meeting data and transcripts. Um, and so that flow is happening ultimately through like GitHub. So I went and did a new interview and then made a poll request that I had clawed kind of, Hey, there is a, this is a new interview in the context of this project folder that is applicable across and actually has a like, um, quantum V destructions to be able to then. Go and make updates with that new data input to the state model. Of what is being researched understood as opposed to that needing to all be done afterwards. We're done. In explicit updates where I'm like, okay, I got five new ones. It's just, it's just that, that's part of the flow of uptaking the transcript - based inputs. To the wiki - based state knowledge. And she has a like co - work scheduled task to go do. This happens automatically. At the end of every day based on the new circle back. So it's not even webhook - based of like one at a time, which probably would be even better. Hers is her scheduled tasks to go fetch any new meetings, process them across these instructions to ultimately go update this, like state knowledge graph. So. One example of this. Well, this is super useful. So, um, next steps are we're going to. Digest the data here. We have the recording. Mike, it didn't stop the whole time. So we're good. And we will update the objectives for the coming quarter. With specifics from this, um, this conversation and the other planning to basically say this is what we plan to do this quarter and have a quick plan. We'll align on that next week. Okay. Sounds great. Thanks, Jake.

**Jeff Whitlock:** Good stuff, man. Appreciate it. Yeah, it was good. Progress. Get up. Good opportunity.